Wednesday, November 24, 1976—Vancouver—
New York
Got up at 7 A.M. in Vancouver and cabbed to the airport ($15 plus $5 tip,
magazines, $5). This is the end of the trip to Seattle for the opening at the
Seattle Art Museum there, then we’d gone to Los Angeles for Marisa
Berenson’s wedding to Jim Randall, then to Vancouver for my Ace Gallery
show opening there. Nobody in Vancouver buys art, though—they’re not
interested in painting. Catherine Guinness [see Introduction] didn’t get
edgy till the last day when she started this annoying thing the English do—
asking me over and over, “What exactly is Pop Art?” It was like the time we
interviewed that blues guy Albert King for Interview, when she kept asking,
“What exactly is soul food?” So for two hours on the plane she tortured me
(cab from La Guardia $13, tip $7—Catherine was grand and gave him the
whole $20). Dropped Fred off. Got home. Ate an early Thanksgiving dinner
with Jed [see Introduction]. He’d gotten the car serviced for the drive down
to Chadds Ford in the morning to Phyllis and Jamie Wyeth’s.
Thursday, November 25, 1976— New York—
Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania
Fred called at 8 A.M. to find out when we were leaving. Barbara Allen
called and said that if we were leaving after 12:00 she would come (film
$19.98). Cabbed to 860 [860 Broadway, at 17th Street, at the northeast
corner of Union Square Park, where Andy rented the entire third floor for
both his offices and the offices of Interview magazine] to pick up some
things to take. Left around 1:00 (cab $3.60, gas $19.97, tolls $3.40).
Beautiful day.
Jed somehow drove straight to the Wyeths’ door, with just one phone
call for directions (phone $.10) at a turnoff right near the place to get the
last bit. Arrived around 4:00. The traffic was okay. Barbara Walters didn’t
come after all.
Andrew Wyeth, Jamie’s father, was there. Frolic Weymouth was there, a
neighbor—his wife who’s Andrew Wyeth’s niece had just left him for an
antique dealer or something after lots of married years—he’s a du Pont—
and he was depressed, so he was over for dinner. And Andrew’s two sisters,
one nutty who looks like she drinks and paints.
We sat for hours and hours at dinner, it was perfect, so good. Lots of
drinks. I was still so tired from all the traveling at the beginning of the
week. Jed went to bed around 2:00, everyone else stayed up until around
4:00.
There was a romantic interest going on. Robin West—he’s a neighbor of
the Wyeths, too, he works for the Pentagon but he’ll be losing his job soon
because Carter’s coming in—he was there, and Catherine talked about shit
and piss for him and about the Anvil S&M bar, and he seemed to like that
and got interested. He’s looking for a rich girl to marry, he asked me where
oh where was his tub of butter on the other side of the rainbow, and I told
him it could be a tub of Guinness beer if he played his cards right. He said
he’d take us for a ride in an aircraft carrier before his job gets given to a
Democrat.
Friday, November 26, 1976—Chadds Ford
Went on a tour of Winterthur in the morning (tickets $24, books $59). Then
Phyllis Wyeth got the buggy together, we had an all-American breakfast,
fed Archie and Amos [see Introduction], then we went out for a ride. We
went across the Brandywine River in it, it wasn’t so deep.
Jed went to meet Vincent [see introduction] and Shelly and Ronnie [see
Introduction] and Gigi at the train station. Went with Jamie to the
Brandywine Museum and we were photographed and had a press
conference. Went back to Jamie and Phyllis’s and there were cocktails. Mrs.
Bartow who I bought the East 66th Street house from was there and she
asked when I was going to sandblast it and why was I never home because
it always looked dark. Carter Brown was there and Jane Holzer with Bob
Denison.
Rode to the museum. I introduced Gigi as “George”—I’d told this guy
she was a drag queen and he didn’t know I was kidding, he got excited—
and then she said, “No, it’s Georgette,” which coincidentally is her real
name—I didn’t know it. So everything was coming out right—I mean it
was just what a drag queen would say, so that was funny. And the guy really
liked her and she didn’t have a clue it was because he thought she was a
boy.
Saturday, November 27, 1976—Chadds Ford
Went in the carriage again. This time Frolic had his carriage out, too. He
was drinking all day. He took his drinks onto the wagon with him and he
was riding around drinking. Jamie took me to his aunt’s house to see a 5’
dollhouse. It was like an old-fashioned Christmas.
Then went over to the museum where an antique dealer was having a
benefit for an opera school, and I really enjoyed that, they were singing an
opera. They passed a hat around and Frolic gave Catherine $20 of his own
money for her to drop in and I dropped in $20, too. Didn’t get to bed until
around 4:00.
Sunday, November 28, 1976—Chadds Ford—New
York
Catherine called New York, to Jodie Foster’s place, to confirm the interview
she and I were supposed to do that afternoon, and Jodie’s mother hedged
saying Jodie was sick and maybe she couldn’t do it, but to call when we got
back to town. Got back at 12:30 (gas $16.50, tolls $3.40). Dropped
Catherine and Fred. Catherine called Jodie again and she said okay.
It was a beautiful day, in the sixties again. Picked up Catherine and
walked over to the Pierre Hotel to meet Jodie. Said hello to lots of people
who said hello to me. At the Pierre I saw a beautiful woman staring at me
and it turned out to be Ingrid Bergman. While I was talking to her, Coco
Brown started waving and yelling from a car. Ingrid’s I think husband came
for her and then Catherine and I went into the restaurant to wait for Jodie.
She came in with her mother and a guy they said they’d picked up I think in
Liverpool, and I couldn’t tell if it was a bodyguard or the mother’s
boyfriend. Jodie had on high boots and a hat and was really cute and we
loved her ($30 with tip).
Then we all walked over to F.A.O. Schwarz and looked at toys. Bought
some for Jodie ($10). She signed autographs. On the way back to the Pierre
a guy was selling big candy canes and he gave Jodie one and me one.
Went home. Nelson Lyon called from L.A. and told me about his
Thanksgiving—Paul Morrissey had invited him to dinner at Chase Mellen’s
house and then called back to disinvite him saying it was going to be “small
and intimate” and that he’d made a mistake inviting anyone. As soon as
Nelson hears that anything is “small and intimate” he gets paranoid he’s not
invited and goes crazy to get there, so he put his mind to it and got there
through someone else. It turned out to be thousands of people there so when
he saw Paul he said, “Small, intimate world, isn’t it?”
Brigid Polk [see Introduction] called and said she’s down to 197. Ever
since she saw herself in Bad [see Introduction] weighing 300 pounds and
went on a diet, she’s so boring to talk to—she never does anything, she
never thinks anything, she just lies there in bed in her room at the George
Washington Hotel and waits for the fat to roll off. I told her I’ll give her a
job—that she could let some roll off around the Factory while she answers
phones, but she won’t. It’s taken her thirty-nine years to lose weight and
it’ll probably take her another thirty-nine years to get to work.
I was too tired to meet the Vreeland crowd for dinner. Watched twenty-
five years of Lucille Ball on TV instead.
Victor Hugo, Halston’s “art adviser,” called me from San Francisco
because I’d told him I loved the display window he did of turkey bones at
Halston’s Madison Avenue store, and now someone broke in and took the
turkey bones, so he thought it was (laughs) me.
Tuesday, November 30, 1976
Daniela Morera, our Italian Interview correspondent, came by the office
with Olivier Coquelin who invited me to Haiti for the Nima
Farmanfarmian-Chris Isham wedding in January. He owns that resort there.
He should be interviewed for Popism—he’s the one who owned Cheetah in
the sixties, the big discotheque on Broadway and 53rd.
I don’t want to talk long this morning, I want to get over to
Bloomingdale’s before it’s too crowded.
[NOTE: Andy talks every morning in the past tense about the previous day’s
events; therefore, when he speaks in the present tense or uses words like
“now” or “today,” he’s referring to something happening right while he’s
talking or that he expects will happen on the day he’s giving the diary. For
example, a Tuesday’s diary would be given on a Wednesday morning, so
“last night” would mean Tuesday night, “this afternoon” would mean
Wednesday afternoon, and “tomorrow” would mean Thursday.]
Wednesday, December 1, 1976
Got into the Christmas spirit and started buying business gifts (cabs $8).
Ran into Jean Kennedy Smith in Bloomingdale’s in the men’s shirt
department. We had the same salesgirl. Cabbed to Union Square ($4). Amos
was down at the office and Ricky Clifton took pictures of him in costume as
the pope.
Left to go down to the Ileana Sonnabend Gallery to the David Hockney
opening. He wasn’t showing new stuff, just portfolios. Took Amos (cab
$2.50). Ran into Gerard Malanga [see Introduction]. Gerard wrote to Fred
asking why he wouldn’t let him do photography for Interview, I guess he
just wants a press pass. Fred won’t have anything to do with Gerard because
we’re still getting repercussions from all the fake Electric Chairs we think
he did, they’re being resold and resold and each time the money involved
gets bigger, so Fred isn’t about to give Gerard anything. The opening was
jammed. Didn’t see David Hockney, he must’ve been in another room.
Changed and went over to dinner at the Iranian embassy. Not really the
“embassy,” but you know what I mean—it’s where Mr. Hoveyda, their
ambassador to the U.N., lives (cab $3). China Machado was there and she
said she’s known Ambassador Hoveyda for ten years or more from when he
and her husband were in France hanging around the French filmmakers in
the sixties. We talked about how horrible Avedon is, she said he gets what
he wants out of a person and then drops them. I agreed and then everybody
screamed at me that I do the same thing.
Pat Kennedy Lawford was there and a du Pont lady who lives next door
to the embassy who said it was so nice not to have to go far for a meal and
so she was late. She was wearing a black and gold dress with a jewel collar
that she said always gets impounded at customs. The food was good, but the
caviar only came around once.
Thursday, December 2, 1976
They’re screening Bad in California this week to try to get a distributor for
it. Sue Mengers is helping us out. None of the distributors want to put up
advance money.
Sent Ronnie to buy brooms ($20). Dropped off Catherine Guinness (cab
$4) and went home to change, then picked her up and cabbed down to 18
West 38th Street ($3.60) to the opening of a new club that Helen Bransford
had invited us to, it’s sort of trying to be a new Reno Sweeney’s. Helen goes
around with John Radziwill now. Fred thinks she’s great and that we should
be nice to her. Tim Hardin was singing there.
Maxime de la Falaise was there with her new maybe-boyfriend, Craig
Braun. I worked with him on the Rolling Stones album cover.
Barbara Allen was there and she’s moving into Fred’s house on 89th and
Lexington for a while, because she rented her apartment on East 63rd Street
to Catherine and then Catherine let her stay there but she and Catherine
living in the same apartment got to be too much.
Went home and watched the news, it’s all the Gary Gilmore thing, every
night they have him on saying he wants to die, he wants to die.
Sunday, December 5, 1976
Went down to the Players Club on Gramercy Park for a dinner for Kitty
Carlisle Hart. It looked like a stag party except for Arlene Francis and
Peggy Cass and Dena Kaye who came instead of her husband Danny, who
had Concorde-lag, and Irene Selznick, who was the chairwoman of the
evening, or whatever they call it. Peggy and Arlene are Kitty’s sidekicks
from “To Tell the Truth.” The dinner was to honor Kitty for being named
the new head of the New York State Council on the Arts by Governor
Carey.
My doctor, Doc Cox, was there and he took me upstairs for a tour of
Edwin Booth’s bedroom and it was musty and dusty, same as in the old
days.
Dinner was served and it was everything creamy I’m not supposed to eat
because of my gallbladder, so the Doc was embarrassed that he was seeing
me eat it because it was putting a damper on a social occasion, so he told
me, “I won’t look.” Met Alfred Drake who was on Broadway, that big
handsome star of Carousel.
Everyone made speeches and then Kitty got up and she was the best.
She was wearing black and pearls, looked very chic. She says she still
wants to work a lot and I remember that Diana Vreeland once told me that
Kitty had to “work like a nigger” because she doesn’t have that much
money. The Doc dropped me off.
Monday, December 6, 1976
Freddy Eberstadt called and invited me to something at La Grenouille
tomorrow night and I said that I had a date with Bianca Jagger and could I
bring her and he said sure.
Left the office early to go home and dress for a formal evening. Dropped
off Catherine ($4). Walked over to Halston’s. Victor had said there was
room for me at Halston’s table at the Metropolitan opening we were all
going to, of Diana Vreeland’s Russia show. When we got to Halston’s Mrs.
Henry J. Kaiser—Aly—was there, she was in a blue-green Halston with
emeralds, and she seemed very interested in me, and when Halston saw us
getting along he suggested I take her upstairs to show her the portraits I did
of him. After the trip upstairs, though, she dropped me, I guess she saw me
in the light.
We were all waiting for Marisa and her new husband and Bianca and her
date, Joe Eula. The acupuncture doctor they all use was there, Dr. Giller, so
he’s on their party list now. Barbara Allen was there, the only one of the
ladies not wearing a Halston. She had on a beautiful off-the-shoulder
Christian Dior. It was from her shopping spree in Paris last month when
Philip Niarchos was buying.
Marisa came and she had her hair piled all on one side of her head like a
beautiful old-time star. Bianca had her purple fox with her, the one she’s
had around the past month. When Joe walked in he and Halston “shook
hands” and when Halston felt what Joe put in his palm he said, “Oh, you’ve
saved my life.”
Victor took me into the garage to show me his latest artwork—he’s
(laughs) making Mona Lisas wearing Halstons, and that’s really funny, so I
encouraged him. Then we went to the Met in four limos. This was the
biggest one of these things the museum has ever had. When Diana walked
through we all kissed her. I talked to Mrs. Kaiser and got to know her. She’s
about sixty but she looks forty, and she says she’s looking for a fuck. I told
her it’s the wrong town, everyone’s gay, and she said she didn’t care—“they
tumble well. I’ve had some good luck here.” She lives at U.N. Plaza. It
turns out she’s a very good friend of Brigid’s mother, Honey Berlin. She
said that when she was at their house old Dick Berlin was so senile he
walked in and rushed over to the mirror and tried to shake hands with
himself but she saw what he was doing and went over and was the hand for
him to shake. I left right after dinner, Mrs. Kaiser dropped me.
Oh, and also at the dinner table Bianca took off her panties and passed
them over to me and I faked smelling them and then tucked them in my
handkerchief pocket. I still have them.
Tuesday, December 7, 1976
Met Bob Colacello [see Introduction] and Fran Lebowitz, and we went
down in the rain to the Biltmore Hotel to the Overseas Press Corps lunch.
Bob had told them weeks ago when they invited me that I would come and
just be present but that he would give the talk on Interview and they said
fine. After Bob’s speech, though, they asked questions all directed at me—
and I wasn’t prepared so I just said yes or no. But afterwards I regretted
doing my same old shy act, when I should have used the situation for
practice—I’d love to be able to talk more and give little speeches. I want to
work on that.
They asked Fran only one question, why her column in Interview was
called “I Cover the Waterfront,” and she said that it was because Tennessee
Williams was on a talk show once and they asked him if he was a homo and
he said, “Well, let’s put it this way: I cover the waterfront.” And Fran’s
answer was a lead balloon, nobody laughed. In the cab downtown she said
she’d rather have her appendix out than go to something like that again.
Bianca called and invited me to a screening of Silver Streak. Didn’t get
home until 7:00 which was exactly when I was supposed to be at the Pierre
to pick her up—she and Mick just rented a house on 72nd Street but it’s not
ready to move into yet. Went over to the Loews Tower East. The movie was
kind of funny. Bianca looked beautiful. Afterwards outside the theater when
we couldn’t find the limo a black guy with a black scarf was pressing
himself up against Bianca and he was crazy, he was saying, “You think
you’re the only one with beautiful clothes in the world?”
Finally we found the car and went to La Grenouille. Isabel and Freddy
Eberstadt and Mica Ertegun arrived and with them was Isabel and Freddy’s
beautiful daughter, Nenna. I kept staring at her and saying how beautiful
she was, and Isabel sort of kept us apart. I couldn’t figure out why they had
asked me to this dinner because if I hadn’t asked to bring Bianca, there
would have been just me. Mica was very sweet. She kept saying that Joe
Allen was so attractive, that how could Barbara Allen leave him.
The Eberstadt daughter didn’t say anything during dinner but then she
finally blurted out that she used to go to Union Square and stare up at the
Factory, so that was thrilling to hear from this beautiful girl. I told her she
should come down and do interviews for Interview and she said, “Good! I
need the money.” Isn’t that a great line? I mean, here Freddy’s father died
and left him a whole stock brokerage company.
We said our good nights and thank-yous and I hope I remember to send
flowers.
Friday, December 10, 1976
Sam Bronfman’s kidnappers were found innocent of the kidnapping charge
today.
Brigid came to the Factory for the first time since she started her diet in
August—she’s down to 190, was last seen at 260. She really looked good
and everyone fussed over her, I took pictures. Barbara Allen found herself a
new apartment on 77th off Fifth.
Sunday, December 12, 1976
I read the Ruth Kligman book Love Affair about her “love affair” with
Jackson Pollock—and that’s in quotes. It’s so bad—how could you ever
make a movie of it without making it a whole new story? Ruth told me she
wants me to produce it and Jack Nicholson to star.
In the book she says something like, “I had to get away from Jackson
and I ran as far as possible.” So do you know where she went? (laughs) Sag
Harbor. He lived in Springs. So that’s—what? Six miles? And she was
making it like she went to the other side of the world. And then she said,
“The phone rang—how oh how did he ever find me?” I’m sure she called
hundreds of people to give them the number in case he asked them.
Monday, December 13, 1976
Victor Hugo picked me up and we went to U.N. Plaza for Mrs. Kaiser’s
dinner for Halston (cab $3). But then we realized we’d forgotten Bianca so
we had to go back to pick her up at the Pierre. Victor gave her some coke
but she didn’t want it.
The first person we saw at Mrs. Kaiser’s was Martha Graham, and C.Z.
Guest was there. Paul Rudolph had done the apartment, and he was there.
White on white. She has a bedroom as big as 860 with one bed in it, and a
floor-to-ceiling glass window with a view, just what terrifies me, but it was
beautiful. Marisol and Larry Rivers and Elsa Peretti and Jane Holzer and
Bob Denison were there. Polly Bergen and I talked about the topic on her
TV show that morning—androgyny.
Tuesday, December 14, 1976
In the afternoon I got a letter from our editor, Steve Aronson, that said he’s
leaving Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, and that he’d asked Mr. Jovanovich
himself to take over on Popism.
Walter Stait from Philadelphia took me to La Grenouille for lunch, he
told Maxime and Loulou de la Falaise to meet us there. On the other side of
the room was the new skinny Truman Capote. He looks now almost like he
did when I first knew him. Truman didn’t answer my hello but then halfway
through lunch he put on his glasses and waved, and later he gave me his
personal phone number. All of the chic girls were in YSL fur hats.
Worked at 860 all afternoon, then Francois de Menil arrived to take me
out to Norman Mailer’s in Brooklyn Heights. He used to live in a whole
house but now he lives on just the top and rents the bottom out and he’s had
the front part made all glass looking out over Manhattan and it’s beautiful.
Wall to wall, it was an intellectual party like from the sixties. Arthur
Schlesinger, Mica and Ahmet, the girl who wrote the book on LBJ. Norman
looks good now, white hair, looks Irish. His little mother was there. And
Jean Kennedy Smith and her husband. Sandra Hochman told me I’m a
chapter in her upcoming book, she talked to me about the women’s
movement and junk like that. She said, “I have your picture on my mantel,”
but I just know she doesn’t.
Isabella Rossellini was at Norman’s, she’s working for Italian television,
she’s doing a thing on boxers, that’s probably why she was there, because
José Torres was there. She said she ran over to see me when she saw her
mother, Ingrid Bergman, talking to me at the Pierre a couple of weeks ago
but that I’d gone. She couldn’t find her coat when she was leaving
Norman’s and just left without it. Norman was sweet and he and François
must be really friends because they hugged and kissed and punched a lot.
François drove us back in his grey Mercedes, he’s a good driver.
Saturday, December 18, 1976
Went shopping for office gifts at Bonwit’s and Bendel’s, then went over to
Quo Vadis for lunch to introduce Robin West and Delfina Rattazzi to each
other. I had thought Catherine liked him from the weekend at the Wyeths’,
but she said she didn’t mind, that she wanted to give him up to Delfina or
something. And Delfina liked him, she was aggressive—it was the first time
I ever heard her say, “My family is in the airplane manufacturing business,”
because usually she pretends she’s so poor. Robin’s a flier. Saw Karen
Lerner and Sisi Cahan having lunch and I figured out it probably was Karen
Lerner who just sold her Flower prints, because David Bourdon just got
some cheap at Parke Bernet.
Went home and Bianca called and said she was going to be packing at
the Pierre and then taking her stuff over to her and Mick’s new place on
72nd. Went to the Pierre and she packed and packed and around midnight
she was done and we went up and she turned off the alarm and we went in.
It must be costing them a fortune, this little house. The people had just had
it redone and it was all painted and with new furniture and I’d like to see it
after the Jaggers have it for a year.
After we were there for a while Bianca turned on the alarm and went out
to the airport to get a plane for Montauk, she wanted to get back out there
because it was so beautiful. [“Montauk” refers to the oceanfront property
in Montauk, New York, at the easternmost tip of Long Island, that Andy
bought in partnership with Paul Morrissey in 1971. The property included
one main lodge-type house with three smaller ones, plus the home of the
caretaker, Mr. Winters. Mick and Bianca Jagger were at this time renting
the place from Andy and Paul] Jade was still out there.
Sunday, December 19, 1976
Went to work (magazines and newspapers for week $26). Lou Reed called
and that was the drama of the day. He’d come back from a successful tour,
he was a big hit in L.A., but he said Rachel had gotten kicked in the balls
and was bleeding from the mouth and he wanted the name of a doctor.
Lou’s doctor had looked at Rachel and said that it was nothing, that it would
stop, but Lou wanted another doctor to check. I said I’d get Bianca’s. But
then Lou called back and said he got Keith Richards’s doctor to come over.
I told him he should take her to the hospital. I was calling Rachel “she”
because she’s always in drag but then Lou calls him “he.”
Monday, December 20, 1976
Jamie Wyeth had invited me to Les Pléiades for lunch. Cabbed to 76th and
Madison ($2.25). Jamie was there with Lincoln Kirstein and Jean Kennedy
Smith. They asked me to turn off my tape recorder, natch. So Jamie is now
the Carter court painter. He’d just been in Plains for a week. Isn’t that
interesting? It seemed like Jean Kennedy Smith really has a crush on Jamie
because she asked me to go to the coat room with her and when we got
there she pulled out an American quilt and asked me if it was real, and I
said yes, and then we went back and she gave it to Jamie. I reminded her
that I saw her in Bloomingdale’s the other week when we both were in the
shirt department, and she said, “Oh yes, those shirts were Christmas
presents for my family.” So it was just regular old shirts for her family, but
for Jamie it was an American quilt.
She was the first to leave, and then we we relived the faux pas that
Lincoln had made in front of her; he forgot she was a sister and when they
were talking politics he said that John Kennedy was “corrupt,” and she just
said, “No, he wasn’t.”
After lunch we went down to Lincoln’s house on East 19th Street and he
showed us his art, it was good paintings—Lincoln’s brother-in-law Paul
Cadmus, George Tooker, and Jared French, all Realists who’d done
paintings of muscle boys. He didn’t have anything of mine.
Walked over to Union Square. Worked the rest of the afternoon.
Tuesday, December 21, 1976
Met Victor, went over to Halston’s store, it was really un-busy, but then
everything is so expensive that if they just sell one little hanky they can
have dinner. While I was there, Jackie O. came in and was whisked up to
the third floor. Victor told me that she doesn’t buy much, just a few little
things.
Went around Fifth Avenue looking for ideas for art projects (cabs $5.75).
Went to 860 for lunch with Todd Brassner and Rainer Crone, but I couldn’t
spend too much time with them, I was painting in the back. Todd was
asking Rainer questions about some paintings of mine he was interested in
because Rainer wrote the Praeger art book on me and he knows who owned
which canvases.
Catherine called Dustin Hoffman who said that the screening was at
5:45 at 666 Fifth. Dustin had filmed his wife Anne doing a Balanchine
dance, his kids were in it, and I think he got a very good guy to cut it
because it looks very professional. When it was over, Dustin invited us back
to his house on East 61st Street. It’s back to back with Phyllis Cerf’s house.
Dustin was nervous, really nervous about his house, and he was taking me
around and showing me every little thing. His taste was oak, but not good
oak, so it was funny.
Wednesday, December 22, 1976
A car came to take me to be photographed for a Merce Cunningham thing
to help it get publicity. Up to 660 Park Avenue. Newsweek and other
photographers were there. When I got there they said they’d take me home
in the car, but then when I was leaving I realized they’d used me up and
sent the car away, so I just walked home.
In the afternoon Jane Holzer stopped by my house to drop off the grey
kitten who’s going to be a Christmas present from her son Rusty to Jade
Jagger. I’m supposed to keep it until Christmas, it’s really cute.
Changed, and Jed drove us out to Peter and Sandy Brant’s [see
Introduction] house in Greenwich. Philip Johnson and David Whitney were
there, they’re leaving tomorrow for San Simeon to see some Hearst and to
look at architecture in California. Dinner was Chinese, not that great. Bunty
Armstrong started using her society teeth. I gave Sandy a 1904 desk set for
Christmas. Jed gave her a Fulper pot and she gave him one back. Actually it
was a Van Briggle, and the one she gave Jed was better. Joe Allen didn’t
bring his girlfriend Jenny, because he’s still in love with his ex-wife
Barbara. Barbara had dislocated her back—“sleeping,” she said, and we
were trying to figure out with who. A horse fell on top of Peter and so he
was walking around with a cane. Peter just bought ninety acres in back of
his house, he’s going to make a racetrack and polo grounds.
Thursday, December 23, 1976
Office Christmas party. Maxime de la Falaise arrived late, to pick up a Mao
painting. Mike the super came in off the freight elevator with his wife and
son but maybe the son is a stepson, I’m not sure. He’s cute. John Powers
came by and wanted me to sign two Flower posters that he had, they
weren’t authentic but I was going to just sign but Fred wouldn’t let me and
so we gave John two authorized ones from the back. Ronnie and Gigi were
there, everyone was really diving into the caviar and champagne. Marc
Balet the Interview art director and Fran Lebowitz were there.
Andrea Portago had called that afternoon and said that if we could get
her a ticket to the premiere of A Star Is Born she would get the limo, so we
did and she did. I couldn’t figure out why she wanted to go so much until
we got to the movie and she rushed up to Kris Kristofferson and said, “Oh
darling, it’s so good to see you again.” Sue Mengers had tried to fill up the
whole place. They’d said it was going to be very hard to get in, but then
there were so many empty seats. Sue said everyone had to say they loved it
or Barbra would be upset. I didn’t like it. The old Judy Garland one gave
you goosebumps but this one was just a nothing rock and roll story. But Jed
loved it. Then went over to the party at Tavern on the Green.
Streisand was wearing a black tuxedo. Elsa Peretti was there and she
was saying how wonderful it was to be with me and not be on anything, that
she didn’t take anything anymore. I admired a light bulb she had in her
purse, a tiny one that lit up when you put a penny next to it, and she gave it
to me, and then Victor liked it so I gave it to him and then Elsa saw that and
took it away from Victor and shook her finger at me and put it back in her
purse.
Andrea was just sitting there waiting for Kristofferson to notice her, but
he was busy.
Friday, December 24, 1976
Went with Jed to Fred’s Christmas dinner at 1342 Lexington. Jed’s brother
Jay [see Introduction] and his sister Susan picked us up. Fred had invited
Carroll Baker and she was there with her daughter, Blanche, who’s gotten to
be a beauty in the last few months, she slimmed down. Anselmino, one of
our Italian art dealers, was there and Chris Makos the cute photographer we
met from Dotson Rader and Robert Hayes the assistant editor at Interview
and it was an office Christmas Eve.
Mick Jagger was there and he was in a good mood, he asked me what I
thought of A Star Is Born and I told him and he said that he was so happy
he’d turned it down, that he didn’t want to play a has-been rock singer, even
for the million they offered him. Mick was asking for coke and finally got
some from Anselmino. Fred’s housekeeper Hazel made turkey and ham and
brussels sprouts. Paloma Picasso and her entourage were there.
Then we went downtown to Fernando Sanchez’s and Halston was there
and Kenny Jay Lane and André Leon Talley and that new really rich
English kid in town who “has no money”—one of those—Nick Scott,
offering to sell his body to the highest bidder. Kenny Lane offered $35.
Maxime de la Falaise upped it to $36.
Saturday, December 25, 1976
Went out to Westbury to C.Z. Guest’s for lunch. It was a magazine
Christmas—the decorations and the food and the house were just like a
spread in McCall’s or House and Garden, like what a house should look
like on Christmas. But you’d think with all C.Z.’s involvement with flowers
and gardening that she’d have real stuff, but when you looked close the
wreaths and things were half plastic. C.Z. gave everyone her bug repellent
for gifts.
Ninety-year-old Kitty Miller was there, she’s still putting blue shoe
polish in her hair. The pies were great—apple, mince, and plum. The turkey
had already been cut up like a magazine would tell you to before it got to
the table, so it was like a Turkey Puzzle. Kitty was drunk and when the
Spanish ambassador said a few words she screamed, “I can’t speak
Spanish.”
It started to snow a little. Said thanks and left to go home to get ready
for the Jaggers’. Got to East 66th and glued [see Introduction]. Went up to
East 72nd (cab $2.50). We were one of the first to arrive. Nick Scott was at
the door, working. This was a job he’d come up with to earn money—being
the Jaggers’ houseboy. Only he was supposed to get there at 8:00 in the
morning to help and he didn’t arrive until 6:00 at night. I gave Jade the grey
kitten from Rusty Holzer. She looked at it and said, “ ‘Lydia?’… No.
Harriet.” I felt sorry for the cat, though, because I think it’s going to have a
horrible home. I don’t know.
Mick sat down next to Bob Colacello and put his arm around him and
offered him a pick-me-up, and Bob said, “Why yes, I am rather tired,” and
just as he was about to get it, Yoko and John Lennon walked in and Mick
was so excited to see them that he ran over with the spoon that he was about
to put under Bob’s nose and put it under John Lennon’s.
Halston and Loulou de la Falaise put a lot of the pick-me-up in a
covered dish on the coffee table and when someone they liked would sit
down they’d tell them, “Lift it up and get a surprise.” Paloma Picasso was
there. Jay Johnson brought Delia Doherty. The dinner was terrific. Mick and
Bianca forgot to bring out the dessert, though.
Monday, December 27, 1976
Got the invitation to President Carter’s inaugural. It was addressed to
(laughs) “Mr. and Mrs. Andy Warhol.” Don’t you love it?
Wednesday, December 29, 1976
Hoveyda brought the Iranian ambassador to England to the office, they
came to see the portrait I did of the empress, and they liked it, so it’s going
to be shipped out.
Vincent drove out for the hearings on the Montauk property, wetlands
commission.
Friday, December 31, 1976
Worked at the office until 7:00. Went home to change for Kitty Miller’s
party. Walked over to 550 Park. Fred was there. Elsie Woodward, my Kitty-
date for last New Year’s, had called and cancelled because she said she was
dizzy and that she can’t fight it—“I’m old.”
Princess Minnie de Beauvau was there with her father and stepmother
and her sister Diane. She introduced me to her grandfather Antenor Patino
who I then realized I’d just met at C.Z. Guest’s. He’s little. He looks like
one of Paloma Picasso’s little boyfriends. He’s the tin king of Bolivia.
I overheard Kitty describing me to somebody and I guess somebody
must have talked to her about me because what she was saying was
sounding like somebody had told it to her—“He’s one of the furthest off-
Broadway, and a far (laughs) head of his time,” and things like that. Maybe
it was Billy Baldwin or somebody like that she got that stuff from.
I missed Kitty’s regular butler, the one that had the fight with Diana
Vreeland’s maid. He was fired for being too familiar, but I really liked him
—he’s the one who told me to watch those A.E. Coppard stories on channel
13.
And after dinner, I sat underneath Goya’s “Red Boy.” Kitty has this most
famous painting right there in her house, it’s unbelievable.
Kitty’s parties used to be the biggest thing in New York with every
Hollywood star there and now it was down to just her friends. Aileen Mehle
—“Suzy”—didn’t even RSVP this year.
Diane de Beauvau took my hand and we ran into the next room right as
midnight was coming on. I sort of wanted to stay and kiss the old bags like I
did the year before because actually it was so much fun to do—to kiss
ninety-year-old Elsie Woodward and say, “Happy New Year, darling.” Then
Minnie de Beauvau came in and got Diane and told her she had to go back
in and say Happy New Year to their father and stepmother—because she
knows where their bread’s buttered.
And the food at Kitty’s—it was the canned frozen stuff again. At first
you think that maybe these rich people don’t know any better because
they’ve been going to charity dinners all their lives, but then they do go to
La Grenouille, too, and that’s really good food. So they must notice the
difference. And there were six servants serving the canned food.
Right after midnight it was everybody grabbing their coats, they
couldn’t wait to go on to the next party. Fred was really drunk. We got out
on the street and he thought he was the “It Boy”—he gave Minnie his coat
—the wind-chill factor was making it around twenty below—and he was
just in his top hat, kissing everyone on the street. We walked Diane to the
Westbury to pick up her boyfriend who’d stayed home to write a script, but
when we got there he was in the nude waiting to fuck her, so we left her
there.
Went home. Called Brigid. Called PH [see Introduction]. Nobody was
home yet. At 6 A.M. Jay Johnson woke me up calling to speak to Jed. He
was drunk and I hung up on him and he called back and let it ring twenty
times.
Monday, January 10, 1977
Fred had to go to a meeting at our lawyer Bob Montgomery’s about the
New World distributing deal for Bad. Roger Corman himself hasn’t seen
Bad but Fred says that doesn’t matter because Corman doesn’t pick the
movies, that this other guy Bob Rehme does. They’ll try different ways of
opening it around the country to see what works best before bringing it into
New York.
Bianca called and invited me to a dinner that Regine was giving for
Florence Grinda, and Catherine and Victor got on the phone and said they
wanted to come, too, so she told them to come for coffee.
Andrea Portago had called me earlier and asked me to take her to the
dinner, and I told her it wasn’t my invitation so I couldn’t, but to call Bianca
and she did and Bianca was thrilled, because she’s after Andrea’s brother,
Tony, and Andrea and Tony would come together. Andrea picked me up
with her brother. We went to Regine’s.
Bianca was wearing a strapless Halston dress. There were South
Americans at a lot of tables. The dinner hadn’t started yet, and while they
were still in pre-dinner, at the bar, Catherine and Victor walked in for
“coffee.” When dinner started they were put at a separate little table, and
when Victor pointed at my table and said he wanted the same thing, they
said, “You’ll have to pay for it,” and he said fine. The food was awful.
Regine was sort of rude to Victor and Catherine.
Diane Von Furstenberg was there. She’d called me to be her date for a
CBS filming of her on Thursday, she thought we’d make an interesting TV
couple, and I told her I’d be out of town— I’m actually not leaving until
Friday—but to come down to my party on Tuesday night with her TV crew.
But when Regine invited me for Thursday night dinner DVF overheard me
say yes— it’s for Russian Easter—and said how dare I have lied to her, so I
was caught and I just said I’d made a mistake.
Victor gave out fake poppers. Regine said they smelled like feet and I
told her they were called “Locker Room” and she liked that. Bianca started
to giggle and she was carrying on over a popper with Tony Portago, and
they were sort of making out, but she pulled herself together, she realized
that she couldn’t do that in public, but she’s the most beautiful when she
giggles, and she loves those poppers. Some fans came over and I signed
autographs. When Victor and Catherine and I left it was around 2:30 and the
Portago driver dropped us.
Then at 4 A.M. Tom Cashin called to talk to Jed because Jay had cut his
arm and was bleeding and so Jed went to take him to the hospital. And then
Jay called from the hospital, and that drama went on until 9 A.M.
Tuesday, January 11, 1977
At six o’clock everyone was still at the office waiting around to go to my
opening down at Castelli, so we went and at first it was empty, but we
grouped around the bar setup drinking champagne and then it started getting
jammed. There was the big “Hammer & Sickle,” and eight small ones.
David Whitney, Philip Johnson, David White were there. Paulette Goddard
arrived, she said she wanted me to do her a Hammer & Sickle pin. Victor
was there, performing, cutting up a shirt. Bianca arrived in the dress from
Halston’s window that Victor had foot-printed. And Catherine was wearing
the red outfit that Victor had also foot-printed. Tony Portago and his mother
Carroll Portago arrived. Paulette and Carroll are old friends. Bianca wanted
poppers but nobody had any. Halston came in with a little painting
Elizabeth Taylor had done for me because she didn’t come down—he’d just
been with her. When I think about that I’m really disappointed—it would
have been so great if Liz Taylor had come to the opening. That would have
made it something, wouldn’t it?
Bianca and Tony Portago look really in love. This started over the
holidays. C.Z.’s son, Alexander Guest, was there. Giorgio Sant’Angelo,
Sylvia Miles, Ronee Blakley, Francesco Scavullo and Sean Byrnes, Irving
Blum and Charlie Cowles. Moët Chandon champagne. The Soho News guy
Michael Goldstein was there, being awful. I gave Jed money to entertain at
dinner afterwards ($200) because I had to go up to John Richardson’s.
I was disappointed with John Richardson’s because it was oldies.
Marion Javits, Françoise and Oscar de la Renta, Marella Agnelli, Babe
Paley—I guess she really was a beauty once. Babe and Marella raved to me
about my paintings, they’d seen the show on Saturday.
Sat next to Marion Javits. She told me how happy she was about Clay
Felker losing New York magazine last week to Rupert Murdoch. Felker’s
the one who exposed her Iranian connection last year.
Catherine and Victor arrived for after-dinner. Victor had glued parts of
his shirt together.
Nima Isham’s mother and father came to the opening, and I couldn’t
believe it—here they were back from their daughter’s wedding in Haiti that
past weekend and Bob still isn’t back yet!
Wednesday, January 12, 1977
When I got to 860 a big CBS crew was filming Jamie Wyeth with Arnold
Schwarzenegger posing for him for a show called Who’s Who. Cabbed up
with Jamie and Arnold to a lunch at Elaine’s for Arnold’s movie Pumping
Iron ($5). Stopped at the Ritz Towers, had to wait five minutes for Paulette
Goddard to come downstairs. She was wearing all her jewelry and was
funny. She said, “If you’d played your cards right, these could have all been
yours”—to me. God, when I think of how many hours Bob and I spent
taping her, trying to get the real story of her life out of her for that book Mr.
Jovanovich wanted … I mean, if I’d been a big Hollywood star and married
to Charlie Chaplin and Burgess Meredith and Erich Maria Remarque I think
I could’ve come up with a few hot stories.
At Elaine’s Delfina Rattazzi was there. She works at Viking now as a
reader for Jackie O. Victor was there and Paulette was falling in love with
him because she was calculating all the Halstons she could get out of him.
Pat Patterson came and sat with us, and Charlotte Curtis from The New York
Times was there, too.
Dropped Jamie at the art store ($5). The office was jumping, Vincent
was going crazy. Bianca called and said she was having a birthday dinner
that night for Joel LeBon who works for Pierre Berge. Potassa the drag
queen was at the office in a homemade black and gold fantasy dress and
Jamie got fascinated and painted her in the dress with her cock showing.
He’ll be painting at 860 for about two months. Then Victor got Potassa to
pose in the nude. Nenna Eberstadt is now working for us, she was typing up
an interview. John and Kimiko Powers came in with a lot of art things for
me to sign. Alex Heinrici [see Introduction] came by with some acetates.
Worked until 7:00 and then went up to Bill Copley’s to sign a painting
he’d bought. He’d just made dinner for his little daughter, Theodora. A great
dinner—hot dogs, ketchup, Coke, and vanilla ice cream.
Dropped Fred off at Lee Radziwill’s ($2.75). Went to the party for Joel.
Bianca was wearing the same dress she wore the last time—it’s strange to
see girls who really dress up wearing the same thing twice.
Friday, January 14, 1977—New York—London
Arrived in London and didn’t expect anyone to meet us, but Lady Ann
Lambton was standing there with a chauffeur and we were really happy to
see her. She had a broken neck, it was in a brace.
Stayed at the Ritz (tipped $5 for bags).
Ann called her sister Rose and Oliver Musker and we decided to meet
them at Morton’s. Had orange and champagne to drink, and a steak
sandwich which was horrible ($55). Left for the Ritz, Jed and I, thought
Ann would stay in Fred’s room but she didn’t because he had a small bed.
Felt itchy and found a crab. Looked for more.
Saturday, January 15, 1977—London—Kuwait
Up at 7:00 for the flight to Kuwait. Tired. Packed, showered. Looked for
crabs, still. Sent the hotel bill to the Mayor Gallery (tips at hotel $10).
Picked up James Mayor at his place. He’d gotten us second-class seats, I
was really mad, but there was one first-class one and I got it. Kuwait Air.
The plane had to stop at Frankfurt and lots of people got on there. Read The
Users by Joyce Haber, very boring, about a homosexual husband. Joyce
was married to Doug Cramer, he’s a producer. There was a sheik on the
plane up front with bodyguards in an even further front cabin. Took a pill.
Fell asleep.
Woke up when the plane was landing. Arrived 11:00 late at night. Met at
the airport by some Arabs. There was a girl Nadja, from the Council for
Culture, who’d arranged the show. They made us drink some strange coffee
at the airport.
Sunday, January 16, 1977—Kuwait
Up at 9:30. Breakfast toast and tea (tip $2, laundry $1). James called,
meeting downstairs at 12:00. We were taken to a place that looked like
some dump, but then everything here does, and it wasn’t until days later
that we realized it had been a chic place. Outside the sun was warm with a
lot of cars going by—big Rolls Royces, big American cars. They gave us
two cars but we only used one. Went back to the hotel to try to buy A-200 to
kill the crabs.
Bought Nick Carter mysteries ($4). At 4:00 had to meet Nadja and
James again. Went to souk for local color. Ladies in black hiding their faces,
big marketplace, bazaar. It got very cold. Got an outfit to give to Victor as a
gift (hat $4, dress $26). Spent time looking for antiques, but there are none
in Kuwait—just a few old pots from a couple of years ago. We were the
only foreigners in the marketplace.
Went to Nadja’s gallery. Had some more of the sweet funny coffee they
offer you all the time, you go crazy. We didn’t know that if you don’t shake
your cup they keep pouring it in.
Bought five more copies of the Kuwait Times ($1). Calligraphy
beautiful, no Pop there. Went to different drugstores looking for A-200. To
hotel. Ordered dinner before dinner (tip $2). The people we were having
dinner with sent a silver Cadillac limousine. Arrived at Qutayba al
Ghanin’s, a rich young Peter Brant type. His house was on the gulf, a little
out of town. Land there was really expensive. He made it chic by moving
there.
Kuwaitis don’t serve hard liquor or beer or anything, it’s against the law,
but the rich ones have some hard liquor, Jack Daniel’s or something.
Read Nick Carter. Really good—sex and girls.
Monday, January 17, 1977—Kuwait
Visit to the National Museum, there’s no history to this place, it goes back
twenty-five years. There were like eight rooms, one had three coins in the
whole room. Think there was one room that Alexander left some pots in.
Alexander the Great—three pots and four coins. A room with yesterday’s
dresses. More tea and coffee with the director. Just sat there, there was
nothing to do. Carred over to see the secretary-general of the Council for
Arts for more tea and coffee and ceremony. Dirty handprints on the wall, as
if they killed somebody and it was a work of art or something. Guys
standing around.
Everybody says the same routine: Where are you staying? How long
have you been here? How long will you be here? When are you leaving?
When are you coming back?
Carred over to see a rich collector named Fahad al Dabbous. Chubby
and cute. He had a lot of paintings around on the wall, some Dalis, one sort
of big one, lots of male friends there, most in costume, a couple of wives.
They had drinks there, also—only the rich, remember? A big spread on
table, nothing compared to Iran’s big spreads. The men looked fat, but
usually in costume you couldn’t tell too much. But this one was chubby. He
had bought the Marilyn and the Flower prints. He was wearing a girl’s
diamond-studded watch with a blue face. The Kuwaiti food was greasy—
greasy roast.
Bought crab soap ($6). At 8:00 we were picked up by Mr. Bater, who
was the cultural attaché from the United States to Kuwait, and taken to see
the American Ambassador Morandi who was giving us a dinner. His wife
was from Seattle, talked so much it drove us crazy. They were Democrats.
Dinner was served at 10:00. Left at 12:00, bored. Used the crab soap, it
didn’t work. Fell asleep in the bathtub. In bed couldn’t sleep. Read the Ruth
Kligman book again, she was driving Jackson Pollock crazy in the car and
that’s when he ran into the pole. Gave it to Fred to read.
Tuesday, January 18, 1977—Kuwait
Up after restless night at 9:00 (tip $1, laundry $2). James Mayor urgently
calling—we were always late because it was always so boring we weren’t
in a hurry. Visited a Kuwaiti artist atelier. Three artists in each room. This
time tea or orange pop. Visited each stall, had to. One guy painted in
Picasso-Chagall style. Not one original style. They sit on the floor and paint
on rugs and pillows, it looked like hippie streetwares, like the sixties. It was
the only nicely designed building in Kuwait because it was a copy of the
Ford Foundation. Got a tour of the building. The man said it was very
Kuwaitian.
Picked up at 4:30 for the opening of the exhibition in the Arts Council
Hall. We had to meet the minister of state there. I think his name was
Ahmad Al-Adwani—have that name written down. But maybe that name
goes with someone else. I had sent him a copy of the Philosophy book [see
Introduction] and he said he’d read it and that it had clever ideas, he was
old and cute. There was a red ribbon in front of the door, I had to carry a
pair of gold scissors on a red pillow to cut the ribbon. A lot of TV and press
there.
Wednesday, January 19, 1977—Kuwait
Went to the exhibition for a tea party and had to drink more tea and then we
were invited by the English ambassador to drop by. His daughter was there,
she was seventeen and drew cartoons about fags. She was cute and funny.
Had her father’s chin, which was no chin. There were a lot of English
people there who’d been living and working in Kuwait for years. Left. Big
rainstorm.
Picked up by Nadja and had a fight with Fred about not going to
Germany. He said I had to go because “you’re a fading star there.” It was
the way he said it that got me mad.
Dinner at Nadja’s house. There were sixty people. The best party the
whole trip. She had eight or ten brothers and a mother and sisters and all the
men dance together, looks like the twist. The food was really good. Then
men began dancing with Fred. Someone gave him $40 for dancing so well.
Had to stay until everybody left—2:30. James admired somebody’s robe
and they gave it to him. Jed admired someone’s nose ring and he got it. I
didn’t know about the custom, so I didn’t get anything.
Thursday, January 20, 1977—Kuwait—Rome
Alitalia flight. Five and a half hours. Read the Rome Daily American.
Carter inaugurated. Disgusting drunks on the plane. Airport empty,
disorganized. While standing there ran into Marina Cicogna and Florinda
Bolkan coming from St. Moritz (cab to the Grand Hotel $20). Hotel suite
wasn’t ready so we had to have lunch in the dining room. While we were
there we ran into Helmut Newton and Patrick the makeup artist. And Suni
Agnelli came in.
Had the suite Man Ray stayed in, he just died—he’d had a big opening
in Rome right before. Fred said to forget what he’d said about me being a
fading star in Germany, he sobered up, said that I didn’t have to go.
Sunday, January 23, 1977—Paris
Up at 10:00. Staying at Fred’s apartment. Made a lunch date with Peter
Beard. Went out shopping and ran into Mick Jagger.
Went to Schiaparelli’s show (cab $3). They gave us a good seat and lots
of attention. The show was awful, based on “The Three Graces” by
Botticelli. One dress was worth $2 million or something and the best thing
was the armed guards around it.
Monday, January 24, 1977—Paris
People kept coming in and out of the apartment all day starting at 5:00.
Mick arrived so drunk from an afternoon with Peter Beard and Francis
Bacon that he fell asleep on my bed. At 11:00 we tried to wake him up but
he was too asleep. Club Sept ($120) with Peter and Mona Christiansen and
Jed (cab $2, back $2).
Saturday, January 29, 1977—New York—
Nashville
Catherine off the plane first, given a bouquet, and then everyone was. About
eight cheerleaders were there to greet us in blue outfits with “W” on them,
pom-pom girls, doing Warhol-Wyeth cheers.
Staying with a guy named Martin and his wife Peggy who are the Jack
Daniel’s people.
Went backstage at the Grand Ole Opry, went into the dressing room.
Marty Robbins was practicing.
Sunday, January 30, 1977—Nashville
The museum opening of the portraits by Jamie and me was at 6:00. The tour
organizer took Catherine and me around the Fine Arts Center at
Cheekwood. We tried to grab hot dogs, we were so hungry, but he whisked
us away. There was a staircase there brought from England. The popcorn
machine was at the top of it and Catherine and I went to get some, we were
eating and talking and we noticed that the stairs were lined with people and
then we realized that they were lined up because they thought it was a
receiving line to meet me, because they saw me at the top. We filled up
some bags with popcorn and tried to get out, but then someone asked for
some and I gave them a bag, and then I wound up giving autographs for an
hour and a half. Then dinner was served.
A few of the locals came, and Don Johnson, that cute actor we know
from Magic Garden of Stanley Sweetheart, he’s a friend of Phil Walden’s.
Suzie Frankfurt came down to Nashville to social-climb. She’d pre-
written thank-you notes before she even got there and she made out well,
she got on the front page with me instead of Catherine who didn’t step
forward fast enough.
Monday, January 31, 1977—Nashville—New York
Vincent heard that Joe Dallesandro’s [see Introduction] foster mother died
on Long Island last week. This is two weeks after his brother Bobby died,
and Joe’s still here in this country—he hasn’t gone back to Europe yet.
Worked until 7:30. Went to Regine’s. Warren Beatty was there looking a
little older and heavier. Jack Nicholson was there looking a little older and
heavier. Anjelica Huston and Apollonia the model were there. I like
Apollonia now, she’s really sweet. And Catherine Deneuve was there, who
the party was for. Warren was dating Iman, the black model.
Barbara Allen and her beau Philip Niarchos were there and James Brady
and the Women’s Wear Daily guy, Coady. He was carrying on at Barbara
and Philip’s table and Philip was trying to be charming, and Coady was
with a beautiful girl—I couldn’t figure out how he would be—and they left
early. Barbara Allen came over and told me that Coady had been saying, “I
hate everything here. I hate Jack Nicholson, I hate Warren Beatty, I hate
Andy Warhol, I hate Diana Vreeland, and most of all I hate James Brady.”
Oh and the food. He also hated the food.
Philip was drinking and getting cuter. Barbara really seems like she
wants to get married, I think she wants to have children with him.
Ruth Kligman had called me that afternoon and I told her I was seeing
Jack Nicholson and would talk to him about starring in the Jackson Pollock
movie. She asked me if I could take her to meet Jack and I said no. (laughs)
I wouldn’t take her anywhere after reading her book. She actually killed
Pollock, she was driving him so nuts.
A fifteen-year-old girl Philip knew from St. Moritz was there with her
father and she was talking to Philip and Barbara was nervous because when
you saw them together you could really see that girls like Barbara and
Apollonia had lived—they looked old—and this fifteen-year-old’s charm
was that she was so young and like a little girl, like she hadn’t been used
yet.
Jack stopped by the table and I said I was going to send Ruth Kligman’s
book and he said she’d already called him.
Tuesday, February 1, 1977
Joe Dallesandro came by 860 for lunch. I asked him how his brother Bobby
had really died, and he finally changed it from the “accident” he said it was
originally to what really happened. Bobby hung himself. Joe was quiet at
lunch.
Finally got to bed early for a night. The cold wave is the big news. And
the gas shortage they’re playing up.
Wednesday, February 2, 1977
Ronnie and I had a fight. He was upset when I said I didn’t want the
Hammers & Sickles cut and stretched the way he’d done them while I was
away, and he said that he’d done all the work for nothing. I asked him what
he would have been doing if he hadn’t been doing that, anyway, so what did
it matter if it wasn’t necessary. I said I never know what I want until I see
what I don’t want, and then he said well then that was okay if I “bounced
off that,” that it was worth the effort, that he just resented it if he’d done it
for absolutely no reason.
Worked late, didn’t leave until around 7:30. Talked to PH about Popism,
she told me about her interviews with Jonas Mekas and Kenny Jay Lane the
day before. Jonas had been good, Kenny was lousy.
Dropped Catherine off (cab $3). Went home and did some work, then at
11:00 Catherine and I went over to Regine’s to interview Michael Jackson
of the Jackson 5. He’s very tall now, but he has a really high voice. He had
a big guy with him, maybe a bodyguard, and the girl from The Wiz. The
whole situation was funny because Catherine and I didn’t know anything
about Michael Jackson, really, and he didn’t know anything about me—he
thought I was a poet or something like that. So he was asking questions that
nobody who knew me would ask—like if I was married, if I had any kids, if
my mother was alive…(laughs) I told him, “She’s in a home.”[see
Introduction]
We tried to get Michael to dance and at first he wouldn’t but then he and
the girl from The Wiz got up and did one dance.
Thursday, February 3, 1977—New York—Denver
At the airport in the morning I ran into Jean Smith, who was on the same
flight. She was with her son, who was sort of big and heavy. She asked
about Jamie Wyeth. In Denver there was a blonde girl driving a Rolls
Royce, she had on a chauffeur’s cap and gave a tour of the city. Dropped us
at the Brown Palace Hotel, an old hotel with a new annex but I decided to
stay in the old part. The lobby looked better than the room, service very
fast, lots of extras like showercaps, a new TV, and soap. Room had a basket
of fruit. I called my nephew Father Paul and said I’d meet him the next day
at my opening. Picked up at 6:30 for the preview for the patrons. Fred got
really drunk. He got mad at some tough ninety-year-old lady and told her
that he was only there for the money, honey, and I tried to shut him up, but
he just hated the whole thing so much, and he decided that next time I did
personal appearances he would stipulate that they had to buy something. All
the women too ugly for portraits.
Friday, February 4, 1977— Denver
Weather beautiful, fifty or fifty-five, blue skies. Tried to walk as much as
possible. Walked to museum at 2:00, had to do some press interviews. They
were boring.
The opening was at 7:00 but we decided to go at 8:00. We were getting
the Rolls Royce again. At 7:30 Father Paul arrived and my niece Eva.
Ordered double drinks and Father Paul got a little high and they wanted to
ride with me so they got into the Rolls Royce, full of girls. Father Paul tried
to convert them. Crowded at the museum. Dreadful dinner, sold Interview
shirts and Philosophy books and posters.
Got handed some mash poems.
At 10:00 they let the $10 people in, they were all the freaks of Denver, a
lot of cute boys and nutty girls.
Sunday, February 6, 1977—Carbondale, Colorado
—Denver
Went with John and Kimiko Powers to the forty acres I bought out near
Aspen. Ran into two girls on the property riding horses. They said it was the
most wonderful country they’d ever spent time in.
Caught a flight to Denver. Took forty minutes. Checked into the Stouffer
Hotel near the airport.
At 3:00 in the morning thought I heard the doorknob being turned—it
was the little brats in the room next door listening to TV. Scary.
Monday, February 7, 1977—Denver—New York
Woke up at the crack of dawn, went to the airport. There was a guy cleaning
the windows of the plane as I was going on, and some people can just look
up and say, “Hi, Andy” so casually, and he was great, he did that. Later he
came to find us and asked for an autograph for his high school teacher.
Cab in from the airport ($20). Dropped off the bags and Fred (called
Vincent from the airport $.10). Sent Ronnie for supplies ($10.80). Went to
860 (cab $4). Jamie Wyeth was there, talked to him (tea $10). Lester Persky
called to invite me to dinner in honor of James Brady, who’s the new editor
of New York.
Géraldine Stutz was there. It turns out she’s on the same council as
Jamie, the American Council for the Arts, that gives money to artists. I
think it’s disgusting the artists they give the money to. They always pick the
ones that are very “serious.” Walter Cronkite was there.
Lester started getting drunk and was really funny, telling me how great it
was that we were still friends, even though he’d never done anything for me
and never would. And then he did his “I’m so rich now and I’m still
unhappy” routine. Really, does he do it at every dinner every night? He
must.
A famous male model came and sat down, from Zoli. He’d just had a
baby in Alaska. I met the editor of the Daily News, Michael O’Neal. I’d
never met him in all these years, and I was thrilled to meet him. When I
found out the guy knew all about Interview, I really loved him. He was big
and Irish with lots of hair, grey. I introduced Catherine as the “editor” of
Interview just so they could talk, but she was being in a funny mood and
didn’t really answer his questions. Jamie Wyeth had gone off to Elaine’s.
Catherine said she wanted to take a cab home. She must have made a date
with someone, maybe Jamie.
An English kid came over from the bar where he’d just been talking
with Lester Persky and asked if Lester was really the Lester Persky the big
producer, and I (laughs) had to say yes.
Larry Freeberg from Metromedia who first proposed that we do a TV
show, and then turned it down when Bob handed in our budget, was there,
but I didn’t recognize him and stared at him blankly when he walked in. But
that was good—maybe he’ll think twice about what he did to us.
Tuesday, February 8, 1977
Leo Lerman called in the afternoon and commissioned a portrait for Vogues
one-time-use only of Queen Elizabeth.
Friday, February 11, 1977
Cabbed up to Suzie Frankfurt’s and there was a lot of traffic ($5). Suzie is
designing clothes for women who’re over the hill, and it’s a funny idea,
they’re the wrong colors and they emphasize the wrong places, she’s going
to try to get into that business on Seventh Avenue and she’s also trying to go
into antiques as a business. She’s going to go with us to California on
Wednesday— Norton Simon, remember, is her cousin.
Wednesday, February 16, 1977—New York—Los
Angeles
Arrived in sunny California. Dropped Suzie Frankfurt off at the Simons’ on
Sunset Boulevard in glamorous Beverly Hills. Called the Beverly Hills
Hotel but they were out of rooms so we had to stay at the Beverly Wilshire.
Catherine called her half-uncle Erskine who was in town, he’s just a little
bit younger than she is. He’s been traveling around the world all year with
his cousin Miranda Guinness, the twin sister of Sabrina. Went to Allan
Carr’s. He has a great house. As soon as we got there he wanted us to leave
because he was having a dinner and his guests were arriving and when we
turned the corner Jed and Catherine almost fainted because they saw the
Fonz sitting there. Allan gave us a tour of the house, he said Ingrid Bergman
built it and Kim Novak lived there after her. Took us to every bathroom and
closet, showed us how the bed went up and down like a barber chair.
Meanwhile Suzie was talking to the Fonz. She asked him what he did, he
said he was “An Olympic swimmer,” and Suzie was so excited because
she’d “never met one before”—she kept asking him what year and if he
knew Mark Spitz and everything. By this time the Fonz sort of got annoyed
and couldn’t believe anybody didn’t know who he was. She still didn’t
know who he was after I said, “He’s the Fonz.” The Fonz talked very
serious, he tries to be very heavy. He told me how much he liked me
because of “famous for fifteen minutes,” and something about closets from
the Philosophy book—empty spaces and things like that. I was so excited
meeting him that I couldn’t think of anything to say.
The David Begelmans arrived. We had to leave because the dinner was
about to start. There were white orchids on the girls’ plates. Allan took us in
and showed us the table and the food before he kicked us out. That was
funny.
Thursday, February 17, 1977—Los Angeles
I went to tour the Gemini Gallery with Sidney Felsen and his partner. At
Gemini I got an idea. They can now print 10’ X 10’ and I’m going to think
about it. Done an hour earlier than supposed to, decided to walk around, the
shops just so exciting.
A person ran after me and it turned out to be Jackson Browne. He
invited me to come to the recording studio across the street to hear his new
record. He was adorable.
The cab strike was on so Catherine and I found a limo outside, had to
meet Tyrone Power’s daughter Taryn at 5:00 at the Imperial Gardens
restaurant on Sunset (limo $10). Back for Fred, had to give him money
($5). He went off to Paul Jasmin’s cocktail party for Divine where he met
Tab Hunter.
At the Imperial Gardens with Taryn taped for about two hours. Had
some sake and food ($20 with tip). She took us next door to her boyfriend
Norman Sieff’s house. He was so ugly and she was so beautiful—I was
disappointed. He said he’d met me in Max’s years ago. He has Taryn under
his influence. We wanted to get her away from him so we asked her to go to
the dinner that Doug Christmas, the art dealer, was giving for me at Mr.
Chow’s. She had wheels and drove us back to the hotel.
Got dressed and driven over to Mr. Chow’s. Lots of people there. Bianca
Jagger, Russell Means, Polanski, Tony Bill, Allan Carr, Pat Ast. Russell
Means had an Indian girlfriend. George Hamilton, Marcia Weisman, Nelson
Lyon, who was telling me about some producer who drank the piss
someone gave him and he didn’t know.
Jed had invited Tab. Jed felt guilty because we didn’t cast Tab as Carroll
Baker’s husband in Bad—he’d really wanted the role. Peter Lester from
Interview arrived with Maria Smith and he kept apologizing for being late
but nobody cared. Géraldine Smith [see Introduction] was with Johnny
Wyoming. Perry King, Susan Tyrrell, Allan Carr sitting talking with George
Hamilton. Sat next to Tony Bill and Bianca. Polanski across the way from
me. We’d run into him in the lobby of the hotel and he was going to see
Rocky then and so he was just back from seeing it, said he loved it.
The big people, Sue Mengers and Ryan O’Neal, didn’t arrive, they told
Bianca that they couldn’t “be seen at tacky places like Mr. Chow’s.” Bianca
took us to On the Rox, owned by Lou Adler. When we got there it was
Ringo Starr and Alice Cooper. I’m not saying they were the only celebrities
there—they were the only people there, and they were in the john. Whoever
is there is in the john taking coke. Bianca introduced me to Ringo. Alice
came over to say hello.
Bianca left because she was staying out in Malibu and Mick was coming
in and then leaving town the next day so she wanted to get home early to
see him.
Friday, February 18, 1977—Los Angeles
Rode out to the Ace Gallery in Venice to do a press conference. Called the
office in New York in the morning and Ronnie told me it was Andy Warhol
Day on The Gong Show. Back at the hotel I had lots of messages. Dinner at
Marcia Weisman’s (cab there $4). Ryan O’Neal was there and Sue Mengers.
Ryan was leaning against the Morris Louis and put a big dent in it. He was
sour. I had all the Guinness kids with me—Catherine, Erskine, and Miranda
—and it turned out Miranda’s twin sister Sabrina had been Tatum’s nanny
and Ryan’s secretary when Ryan was filming Barry Lyndon in England, and
Ryan hated her, so he was taking it out on Miranda, and she went to the
bathroom to cry. Sabrina is actually a groupie, even though she’s a
Guinness.
Sue looked terrible and so did Ryan. They left early because, I think,
they thought “nobody” was there. Hollywood people are rotten. They all
play these games with their A, B, and C groups and it’s just too stupid.
That’s why when they come down, they really come down. One thing about
Bianca, she really has class because she’ll go anywhere.
Saturday, February 19, 1977— Los Angeles
Suzie Frankfurt arrived with Marcia Weisman. They had a Rolls Royce so
we Rollsed over to the hospital, Cedars-Sinai. Lots of people waiting, I sold
$1,500 worth of stuff for a benefit. Marcia was very pushy. If anyone took a
picture they had to pay $10. If I signed a can they paid $5. She told them
that my prices would go up in the afternoon to $100 a poster, when actually
they were going to go down to $6.
Dropped back at the hotel. Picked up by Doug at 1:30 and a camera
crew filmed us in the limo on the way out to Venice for my opening. Before
the opening we went to see Tony Bill’s apartment, he bought a building
across from the Ace Gallery with the money he’s making from either Taxi
Driver, The Sting, or Shampoo.
The Ace Gallery was very crowded, people around the block waiting to
get in. Russell and I signed the Russell Means posters. Viva and Paul
Morrissey were there. There were a couple of other people from the old
days—Cockettes.
I got so tired of signing posters all afternoon that I skipped out at 5:00 to
the limo. Suzie invited us along to have a drink in Bel Air at her model
friend Cheryl Tiegs’s and her husband Stan Dragoti, who works for Wells
Rich Greene. Fred was bitten by a big dog when he opened the wrong door
when he was looking for the bathroom, but he didn’t say anything about it
until there was lots of blood coming down his leg. He just put some alcohol
on and then we left at 7:30.
In the lobby ran into Annie Leibovitz and Jann Wenner. Susan Blond left
a message saying she was with Michael Jackson at Top of the Rox. Jann
and Annie had just gotten back from there, the Grammys had just finished
up, so everyone was drunk. A couple of boys in the lobby tried to pick me
up.
Sunday, February 20, 1977—Los Angeles
Doug Christmas’s P.R. woman, Esther, arrived from church with an
autograph from Jane Wyman, she’d asked for it while Jane Wyman was
kneeling.
First supposed to have lunch with Bianca Jagger, but Wendy Stark said
we could all have lunch at Coco Brown’s and I didn’t want to but Fred
thought it was a good idea. The first car left, we were in the second, and we
had a house number 36912 in Malibu. When we got there we couldn’t find
it, but then the first car came along with Richard Weisman in it and he went
to knock at 36910 because there was no 12, and the person who opened the
door was “Mary Hartman,” with her funny braids on.
She said she’d have a party for us if we couldn’t find the party we were
going to. But just then Coco Brown came by in another car with Wendy
Stark and they said it was just down the block, that Wendy’d got the number
wrong.
We got to the house and Bianca was there. She’d had a fight with Mick
and he’d left that morning for New York—she’d accused him of an affair
with Linda Ronstadt.
Walked down the beach with Bianca past the house of Larry Hagman,
and he was standing on the beach in a funny uniform like a foreign-legion
outfit, doing funny hand things, and I guess he’s gone off his rocker. While
we were going by the sea came up and wet my shoes.
Spent three hours trying to make dinner plans. Bob Ellis, Diana Ross’s
ex, and Alana Hamilton seemed too drunk, Bianca didn’t want to be with
Miranda because she was the sister of Sabrina, Jed said he was hungry and
he’d eat anywhere, and Wendy wanted us to go to Max Palevsky’s because
she thought it would be good for us—he was going to have us over to see
his art collection.
And so finally when we got together we went to a restaurant called
Orsini’s, Italian food. Fred screamed at Catherine and told her how rude she
was to him in front of everybody.
Monday, February 21, 1977—Los Angeles—San
Francisco
Got up, packed (cab to airport $20, tip to baggage guy $4, magazines $8).
United flight 433 arrived 1:05. Met at the airport with champagne and
limo by Mark from the gallery where my show was, had royal treatment. He
dropped us off at the Mark Hopkins, had lunch at the Top of the Mark.
Then we walked to the gallery three blocks away down a steep, steep
hill. The space was very large, and it was just around where we used to stay
with the Velvets [see Introduction]. The hanging was just wild. Rotten,
badly hung. Unbelievable. Bad taste. Mark’s mother just horrible.
Press conference, TV show with a guy who was a beauty but he didn’t
know anything and didn’t really like me and so I was being awful, too. I
took him over to a piece of sculpture and told him that I’d done it, which I
didn’t—didn’t get found out until afterwards. Mark took us to the back
where there were magic mushrooms. He took us for a ride across the
Golden Gate Bridge. Under the bridge there were surfers. Very strange. All
the boys wearing black suits, wetsuits, scary and nutty. Touring in Sausalito
really fun. When we arrived back at the hotel Jed and his family were there,
he has a new fat stepfather. And Mrs. Johnson thanked me for being so nice
to her son and made me blush.
I had to stay around the gallery until 9:30. Mark’s mother really made
me work. Trader Vic’s was just up the block. Walked there.
Oh, and Carol Doda, the stripper, came to the opening, and I was so
bored that I talked about her a lot and so Mark said we’d go to the strip
joint. Brought the limo back, went to the strip joint, Carol is now just as
wide as high, saw three naked girls rubbing their asses and cunts against the
floor, and Carol Doda came down on the piano and went up to the ceiling
on it. She was so old that they only had blinking lights for her. Catherine
and I were falling asleep (drinks $35). Fred had disappeared, he was out
cruising.
Tuesday, February 22, 1977—San Francisco—
Miami
Took five hours to get to Miami. Paid for Catherine’s ticket ($72.53). It was
night in a minute, a long flight. Charlie Cowles met us in a great car, warm
and wonderful, but it was 11:00. Time changes. Past the Fontainebleau,
things like that. Took us to his mother’s place on Indian Creek Island on the
grounds of a private club, had a lot of waterfront property. Met the mother
and father, Mr. and Mrs. Gardner Cowles. Had sandwiches. Fred and I were
in the guest house, Catherine was in the main house. Read Artforum which
Charlie Cowles owns and went to bed.
Wednesday, February 23, 1977—Miami
Overslept and got up around 10:30 and breakfast wasn’t served by then, but
there was coffee. Started taking pictures of Gardner—they call him
“Mike”—he adopted Charlie, owns TV stations, sold some of his magazines
to The New York Times, used to own Look.
At lunch Mrs. Cowles said she was losing her two Argentinian
housekeepers—rich people usually talk about servants at dinners and
lunches. Then Charlie took us on the tour.
Fred told Catherine why he had yelled at her—because when he went to
wake her up she had screamed, “Don’t touch me, don’t touch me!” and she
said she was sorry she did it.
Charlie wanted to know if we wanted to go to Fort Lauderdale where the
boys are. Went to the gay places there and Charlie took us down the
boardwalk. The first place, forget the name, the bartenders were in dresses
with mustaches and beards. The first one said, “I’m a friend of Brigid
Berlin’s.”
I really had to pee. Fred came back from the bathroom and I asked him
if there was anybody in there and he said no, that it was empty. I went in
and was peeing and suddenly there was someone next to me saying, “Oh
my God, I can’t believe I’m standing next to you, let me shake your hand,”
and then he realized and said, “No, I’ll wash my hands and then we can
shake.” I lost my concentration and had to stop peeing. And then more and
more people started coming in and saying, “Is it really you?” I got out.
The waiters said that there were only waitresses some nights, the place
alternated. It sounded like Paul Morrissey’s idea for the Western he was
going to do, where the town is half men and half men-in-drag because there
were no women ($5).
Went to a place down a ways with pinball machines and played them for
a while ($10).
Saturday, February 26, 1977—New York
Jamie Wyeth had invited me to lunch for Ted Kennedy’s birthday party, but
in the morning he called and said that Rose Kennedy was only having a
small one and he didn’t realize that, so I couldn’t go after all, but I think it
was just maybe Jamie changing his mind. Went home at 8:30. Saw on
Metromedia that they took the idea from our proposal that they turned down
and then went and did it themselves—they had Dinner with Bella Abzug on
TV. But they did it boring and corny and it made me so mad.
Monday, March 7, 1977
Woke up very cranky, left the house early, around 9:30, cabbed to
Chembank ($3.30). Got a letter at the office from the White House from
Jimmy Carter. I wish I’d talked more last month when I met him, but I was
so nervous. He’s really nice, though, a really nice man.
Jamie Wyeth still was painting Arnold Schwarzenegger who was still
posing. Lunch for Jamie and Arnold ($16). Alex Heinrici came by to touch
up something. Worked all afternoon.
Picked up Bob Colacello and cabbed to 45 Sutton Place South. A book
party for Anita Loos given by Arnold Weissberger. I had forgotten my tape
and camera and there were lots of celebs. Arnold Weissberger and Milton
Goldman have the longest-running gay marriage in New York. Arnold is
seventy-something, the biggest old-time show-biz lawyer and amateur
photographer. He takes pictures of everyone who comes to his house. He
had a book out last year called Famous Faces. He had the book on the
dining table at the party and he was making the famous faces sign it next to
their pictures. Milton Goldman is sixty-something and a big agent at IFA.
Bob noticed that he was the only person under thirty there—barely—and I
said that Arnold must be afraid to have young kids because he might lose
Milton. All the butlers and bartenders were over sixty. They brought one
drink at a time and the tray shaked.
Paulette Goddard was there, she told me that she didn’t sell one rug at
Parke Bernet because the dealers, she felt, had ganged up on her. And they
probably did, because those rugs are great. Talked to Rosemary Harris,
Martha Graham, Cyril Ritchard, Rex Harrison, Sylvia Porter. Milton
introduced everyone three times.
Cabbed to Elaine’s ($3.25) to meet Jamie and Arnold and Rudolf
Nureyev. Jamie was having a meeting of their minds. On the way in the
friend of Lester Persky’s who always feels me up grabbed me and
introduced me to Neile McQueen, and she was actually pretty. He
whispered, “Ex-wife, Steve McQueen” in my ear.
Arnold walked in with three little girls, one of them was a sportswriter
on The New York Times, and she’s in love with him.
Then the most fascinating thing happened. A guy who Elaine introduced
me to did his card tricks, and it was where he flashed the deck and then said
think of a card and then he guessed the card eight times! I couldn’t get it out
of my mind, I thought about it all night. I’ve just got to know how he did it,
because if you can do that, you can do anything. Dropped off Catherine and
Uncle Erskine and Miranda ($3).
Tuesday, March 8, 1977
It was a pretty day, walked around uptown, then went to the office. Jamie
and Arnold were there. I thanked them for a good time the night before (art
supplies $5.85). Jamie said that Nureyev had fallen in love with Erskine,
and that Erskine had almost given in, but didn’t, and that Nureyev’s last
words (laughs) were, “We can just watch TV.” He gave autographs to
Erskine and Catherine.
Was picked up by Bob at 8 P.M., cabbed to the Iranian embassy. Bob
made me go in black tie, but we were the only formal ones and then his
excuse was that we were invited to so many parties he didn’t remember.
We’re starting to feel used by the Iranians. It started in Washington a couple
of weeks ago when we realized that Ambassador Zahedi isn’t “in” now with
Carter—he was so Nixon- and Ford-affiliated, but now he wants to be in
with the Democrats and needs help and that’s us. It was a heavy dinner for
the Swedish ambassador.
Our excuse for leaving early was that we had to go to François de
Menil’s party for Princess Marina of Greece who had an opening at the
Iolas Gallery (cab to Francois’s on 69th Street $2.25). It was jumping—
Arman and Corice, Larry Rivers—great party.
Gigi was there and she just broke up with Ronnie and went off with
Spyro Niarchos, and so Ronnie was depressed. Earlier she’d been telling me
that it was on the rocks for her and Ronnie —she said they haven’t talked to
each other for three months now. He’s getting jealous of her making more
money and traveling around, but he’s not ambitious and she is, but she says
she loves him but that they have to break up because it can’t go on. That’s
the gist of it. Gigi had told me she was going to. Barbara Allen was there
with Philip Niarchos, they’re back in town.
Dennis Hopper was supposed to be there, but I missed him. He’s living
with/staying with Caterine Milinaire—they’re (laughs) “together.” Ronnie’s
friend Tony Shafrazi was there, just back from Iran. He’s the one who
defaced Picasso’s painting at the Modern. The “Guernica.”
Hoveyda told us that Sidney Lumet is coming to Paulette’s dinner at the
embassy next week and we said, “That’s nice.” I hear that Sidney Lumet
goes around town calling me a racist just because Mandingo was my
favorite movie of the year.
Wednesday, March 9, 1977
Read an item in the newspaper that Liz Taylor was selling her diamonds on
Madison Avenue secretly to help her husband’s campaign with money, so I
kept an eye out. Walked over to office. Ronnie wasn’t at work for two
reasons—first because Gigi had run off with Spyro Niarchos the night
before at the party, and second because Wim Wenders was shooting a movie
down at his loft—Dennis Hopper is the star of it.
Lee Radziwill and her son Antony came down for lunch. Antony has
gotten even bigger. Thicker. She said that since she didn’t go down to the
Washington dinner Zahedi gave me the other week he reacted by sending
her champagne and caviar, and when she sent a thank-you note, he sent
more champagne and caviar, and when she sent another, etc. etc. So he’s
really going after her.
Walter Stait from Philadelphia had called to ask if I wanted to have
dinner with him and Ted Carey and I said yes. Ted Carey was having health
problems and he went to Dr. Cox, and Doc Cox was a good doctor because
he recognized the symptoms Ted had and said it was syphilis of the throat.
The Doc must have other patients with that problem, probably. So he sent
him for treatment, and the only problem left is that Ted keeps getting
worms, they keep recurring. At dinner, Ted was very good to talk to for
Popism, we reminisced about when we posed together for our Fairfield
Porter portrait.
Thursday, March 10, 1977
Barbara Allen was bringing Princess Firyal of Jordan, who’s dating Stavros
Niarchos, down to the Factory.
The big drama was the Ronnie-Gigi-Spyro triangle. Ronnie called the
Waldorf Towers late last night looking for Gigi and the desk wouldn’t put
the call through to the Niarchos apartment so first he left a message saying
that “Gigi’s husband called” and later he left a message saying that “Gigi’s
brother died.”
So this morning Spyro called Ronnie and asked if it was all right if he
came to Firyal’s lunch, he said he hadn’t known that Gigi and Ronnie were
“together,” etc. Ronnie said he could come, but that if Spyro said so much
as hello to him, he would beat him up.
Spyro told Bob that Gigi had just walked up to him at the de Menil party
and said, “Remember me?” and he didn’t, so she refreshed his memory and
then said she wasn’t with her boyfriend anymore and since they were both
alone why didn’t they be together for the night. Spyro told Bob that now he
thought Gigi was awful to involve him in her mess with Ronnie. So she
blew it.
Anyway at lunch everyone was sitting down and Ronnie came in and
started filling his plate and then he said, “Where’s my seat?” And I got
scared there’d be trouble because he was acting kind of hysterical, so I told
him that somebody had to answer the phones and anyway, that if he sat
down there’d be thirteen at the table. Worked until about 4:00. Barbara
looked very very thin, she said that Peter Marino was doing a wonderful job
designing her apartment. Cabbed up to pick up Victor to take him to Suzie
Frankfurt’s open house—“Suzie Frankfurt at Home” (cab $5). Fred was
there and so was Francesca Stanfill from Women’s Wear Daily. Mayor
Lindsay was there. Suzie had good tea sandwiches, I ate around forty.
Marvin Davis who was at I. Miller and gave me my first job was there,
and when he saw my old shoe drawings that Suzie has he said it was like
being in the time machine. Suzie got nervous because nobody bought
anything—clothes, furniture, antiques. The idea was “Antiques in a
Setting.” It’s a cute idea. She can probably deduct three-quarters of the
house. Dropped Suzie’s ex-husband Steve Frankfurt off ($3). Went to the
East Side antiques show ($2.50). Walked home.
Bob and I picked up Elsa Martinelli at the St. Regis to take her to the
Iranian embassy. It was a buffet, jammed. In honor of the new American
ambassador to Italy, Mr. Gardner, and his wife Danielle.
I got stuck talking to the Baroness de Bodisco. Hoveyda tried to rescue
me and said to her, “I think there’s someone upstairs it would be nice if you
came with me to meet,” and she said, “No.” And then Hoveyda said she
wouldn’t be invited back again, and she said, “I don’t care.”
Friday, March 11,1977
I had a talk with Rick Li Brizzi at the office, told him he was selling my
Maos and Soup Cans too cheap. Went home to change, picked up by
Catherine, went to Nima Isham’s for a birthday party for Firooz and her
husband Chris Isham ($3).
The apartment was decorated with streamers and balloons. I was playing
around, attaching some of the helium balloons to people who didn’t know
it. Bob kept getting annoyed, brushing his balloon away, he didn’t know it
was tied to him. After the dinner two cakes were brought out and somehow
the whole table collapsed and both cakes went on the floor.
And Ronnie and Gigi are back together.
Saturday, March 12, 1977
Up early, beautiful day. Went down to Subkoff’s Antiques to see ideas (cab
$3). Walked over to the office. Bob was there, looking through pictures for
the photo book Bob and I are doing. Vincent went out and got the paper,
and that’s where the headline was: “MOVIE DIRECTOR CHARGED
WITH RAPE.” Roman Polanski. With a thirteen-year-old girl he took to a
party at Jack Nicholson’s house, and when the police went over to Jack’s
the next day after the girl’s parents called them, they searched the house and
Anjelica got arrested for coke.
Victor had told me that I absolutely had to watch the Dinner with
Halston show on channel 5 —Metromedia.
This is the idea that we submitted to Larry Freeberg at Metromedia and
they turned down, and now they’re doing with other people. Halston’s
guests were Bianca, Joe Eula, the acupuncture doctor—Giller, Jane Holzer,
Victor. It was very boring. They’d asked me to go on this show and I said
no because they’d ripped off my idea.
It was a live dinner with a seven-second delay. Joe Eula said “bullshit”
once and it was cut. The only real-life thing missing at the table was coke,
and no runs to the bathroom. Victor was the life of the dinner, he took his
fake mustache off. He used to have a real one but he’d shaved it off
probably because he hates the acupuncture doctor who has one, but he put
one on for the show. He also had a plastic chicken with him and kept
talking to it, telling it to “say hello to Andy.” Joe Eula and Victor had a tiff
at the table, something about me. Joe told Victor, “Let Andy speak for
himself, why he’s not here,” and that’s when Victor—on Metromedia—said
that Metromedia had ripped me off. So he was great.
Jane didn’t have the right makeup on so she didn’t look good, and they
kept referring to her as “the renowned fashion model.” The dinner
degenerated into throwing drinks. Maybe they’d decided on that because
they’re supposed to be the “wild set.” Jane threw champagne in the air and
then everybody started but it looked so lame, and so Victor poured his in
her lap. Victor and Halston were having a quarrel—you could tell because
Victor announced that he wasn’t going to do Halston’s windows anymore,
that he was now “an artist for hire,” and the camera went close on Halston’s
hard face. At one point Halston or Bianca or somebody actually said, “Let’s
take this hour and a half and just go with it!” And that’s when most people
probably shut their TVs off, the thought of something like that dragging on
for an hour and a half must’ve made them gag.
And meanwhile who should Fred be at dinner with but Larry Freeberg,
who’d stolen the idea from me in the first place. They were all at the
Hermitage, at a dinner for Nureyev, and Freeberg was with Lee Radziwill—
they’re planning to do a channel 5 dinner with her, too.
Halston was having a “cast party” at his place after the show. When I got
there, Mick had come by. He was cute—he told Bianca how good she was
on the show, but around 4:00 he wanted to leave and she didn’t so she
stayed. Everyone was mad at Victor, saying he’d ruined the show, so he’d
already left to go barring.
Sunday, March 13, 1977
Fred says I should stop telling people the TV dinner show was our idea
because the show they came out with is really awful. He thought Halston
and everybody made fools of themselves. He said Mick actually had hated
Bianca in it.
It was raining hard all day long. Went to church (newspapers and
magazines $14). Paulette called and we talked about Dinner with Halston
and I told her it was ripped off from me and she also said better not tell
anybody, it was so bad. The thing is, I guess, in that long amount of time,
everybody’s real personality just comes out and it’s too revealing of how
boring they are.
Jane Holzer called and wanted me to pick her up for the Gilmans but I
begged off. It was raining and I had to bring up a painting to Sondra
Gilman. Barbara Allen called and invited me to dinner with Stavros
Niarchos. Richard Turley called twice to say he had both of my unlisted
phone numbers, he said he was going out with Tennessee Williams and
wanted me to come along.
It was a party the Gilmans were giving for some horse people from
France. They had a new Lichtenstein, the tough ones, the still-life of the
bathroom door. Everyone loved the portrait of Sondra, they seemed to be
saying that I really flattered her. They had caviar going around out of a big
tin. Sondra introduced me right away to Adela Holzer and she was
wonderful, she has a hit now with two one-acters, one is James Coco eating
himself to death and the other is Siamese twins, it’s called Monsters. She
invited me to lunch next week. She said she’s going into the TV business so
I was after her.
Monday, March 14, 1977
Brigid called yesterday, says she’s down to 161. She’s coming by tomorrow
to pick up her Christmas present and her birthday present from last
September which she said she didn’t want to pick up at that time. The
reviews came from England and they were bad for Bad. Stupid people like
Frank Rich can write four pages on some nothing movie, but about Bad
they just describe what it is and leave it at that. Don’t they know what their
job is? To say what something means? I read the reviews and it sounds like
the censors didn’t take out the baby being thrown out the window the way
they threatened they were going to.
Ahmet and Mica Ertegun called to invite me to dinner at Gallagher’s
that night for the Traamps, a thirteen-member black group on Atlantic that
was going to be playing at Roseland. So we went there and the best thing at
Roseland was a girl with real gold—like 14K—fingernails that you buy and
she got my number so she’s going to call to get interviewed in Interview.
She’s a famous singer.
Tuesday, March 15, 1977
The girl singer with the gold nails from last night called, Esther Phillips. I
just know she’s a good singer, I can tell. She said she was going out to
California and we’re going to try to get together out there.
Victor came down with a nude pose-er. I’m having boys come and
model nude for photos for the new paintings I’m doing. But I shouldn’t call
them nudes. It should be something more artistic. Like “Landscapes.”
Landscapes.
Dropped Catherine and Fred ($4). Changed, got ready for Carrie
Donovan’s black-tie dinner at “21.” Joseph Brooks, the president of Lord
and Taylor, invited me (cab to “21” $2.50). Diana Vreeland was Fred’s date
for the evening, and they stopped at “21” and then went over to the Iranian
embassy where I had to go later, too. The “21” thing was fun (cab $2.60).
The Iranian thing was a dinner for Paulette Goddard and Bob had done the
list and the seating, but it was everybody and everything the way Paulette
wanted, and I was bored because she hadn’t invited any interesting people
or any beauties, just her friends. But there was lots of fresh caviar. I was
next to Carroll Portago and Gisela Hoveyda, the ambassador’s wife.
Bob never wanted the Lumets in the first place, and then they pulled out
an hour before the dinner and he had to do the seating all over again.
Diana Vreeland was having a great time talking to a man named Dr.
Lucky, the head of New York Hospital. Anita Loos was there and I told her
she had a beautiful dress on. She’s so tiny I asked her if she went to the
children’s departments to get the long dresses and she said that they didn’t
have any evening dresses in the children’s department, that this was a
Madame Grès, and I asked her if it was half-price because it was so small
and she said, “No. I get a fur coat and Kate Smith gets one and we pay the
same amount of money.”
I asked Anita how the really glamorous women went to bed with men,
what did they do, and she said that the only one she really knew about was
somebody out in Hollywood who, when the moment would come, would
kneel down on the floor and pray to God to forgive her and then the guys
would get turned off and ashamed of themselves and they’d give her jewels.
Anita told me that she’s managed to stay friends with Paulette by never
asking her a direct question. I said I made my big mistake saying, “What
was your sex life like with Chaplin?”
Wednesday, March 16,1977
Had to leave the office early to go home and change because I had to be at
Aly Kaiser’s place at U.N. Plaza. She’s about sixty years old, but looks
younger. She was the nurse and he was Kaiser Aluminum and he married
her. She had a limo, and the big French poodle sat up front with the
chauffeur’s cap on. We went over to Bergdorf Goodman’s. Halston was
giving a fashion show/ benefit for Martha Graham. It was everybody that
you always see at Martha Graham benefits. I didn’t have to buy the $100
ticket, Aly did. Met Andrew and Mrs. Goodman, the owners of Bergdorf’s,
and they live upstairs over the store. She’s Cuban. Saw Pat Cleveland with
Esther Phillips. Mrs. Kaiser fell in love with Esther.
Then we all went over to Regine’s. Mrs. Kaiser, Esther, and her
hairdresser boyfriend. Fred came in with Suzie Frankfurt in a Grès. C.Z.
Guest was there with Prince Rupert Loewenstein. Everybody was
impressed with Esther. For the first time, I danced. It was the first time in
public. Esther took me on the floor and taught me how to disco, she thought
it was funny and I did, too.
Then the kids wanted to smoke and Aly brought them back to her
apartment which was being painted so it was a little messy. She brought out
a bag of marijuana. They started smoking. I really like Esther.
Friday, March 18, 1977
Sent Ronnie for photo supplies ($19.31, $12.78, $7.94). Lester Persky
called and invited me to dinner at his place for Baryshnikov but I was going
to be with Nureyev at the Iranian embassy for his birthday party. Cabbed
with Vincent down to Frank Stella’s studio ($2.75), a party for Leo
Castelli’s twenty years in the art business. Fred said I’d have to go—just the
kind of party I hate because they’re all like me, so similar, and so peculiar,
but they’re being so artistic and I’m being so commercial that I feel funny. I
guess if I thought I were really good I wouldn’t feel funny seeing them all.
All the artists I’ve known for years are with their second wives or
girlfriends—Claes Oldenburg had a new girlfriend, so did Rosenquist. Roy
was with Dorothy, Ed Ruscha was with Diane Keaton, Leo had his ex-wife
Ileana Sonnabend there and his wife Toiny and Barbara Jakobson—all the
girls fall in love with him for some reason. David Whitney was cute,
helping. I borrowed film from one of Leo’s secretaries.
The artists did a “you sign mine and I’ll sign yours” thing and I got a
couple of signatures— Claes, and then Keith Sonnier, who I like. Nancy the
checkpayer from Leo’s was there. The place is on Jones Street, and it
reminded me of when I used to live there and my roommate, Lila Davies,
picked up a Chinese guy and brought him home thinking he was nice and
he pulled out a knife.
Went home, slept a little, then crawled out of bed to go pick up Andrea
Portago to go to the Iranian embassy. Andrea looked lovely, she’s back to
wanting to be a movie star, her mind lapses for a while and then she picks it
up again. Paulette was there, she sold the rights to the novel Remarque
wrote about Andrea’s father, Heaven Has No Favorites—an awful title,
Paulette said. She got $100,000 plus 10 percent of the movie from
Paramount. It’s called Bobby Deerfield now and stars Al Pacino as Andrea’s
father, Fon de Portago, the race-car driver.
After dinner Andrea wanted to be taken to Baryshnikov’s party at Lester
Persky’s but as we were leaving, Bianca and François Catroux came in and
said they’d just been there and not to go that it was awful, so we went back
to Nureyev’s party and then had to go through the “you’re backs” for a
while. But then Andrea decided Bianca was only telling us that Lester’s was
bad to stunt her career, that it was probably a great party and that Milos
Forman would be there so it would be good for her, so we went after all.
Cab to the Hampshire House ($3). Lester is high up, and as we sat there
talking the chandelier kept moving, a big one. I was nervous about it.
Baryshnikov was so sweet. Milos was cute, telling me we had the same
kind of shoes. Brooke Hayward was there and threw her arms around me
and said, “I’m so successful, I don’t know what to do.” I think she’s nutty.
Lester had works by Rosenquist and Rauschenberg, but just one Cow I
gave him and a Marilyn. He should have bought my stuff early on. I’m
trying to get some Dollars on his wall, though. Lester’s is cozy. Dropped off
Andrea (cab $3).
Monday, March 21, 1977
Fred was having trouble with Ileana Sonnabend who was being rotten, not
wanting to give some drawings of mine back.
Bianca came to lunch at the office and Jamie asked her if she was
(laughs) from Uganda— because she was talking about loss of human
rights and secret police killings in “my country”— and she nearly killed
him. She said, “Nicaragua, Nicaragua.”
Worked in the afternoon. At 6:00 left to go to Adela Holzer’s (cab
$3.50). Bob was being crazy and didn’t want to go, said she had no money.
But she has a whole house, 216 East 72nd Street, and I liked the way it
looked. She was entertaining James Coco and his boyfriend.
When I got home the phone rang and it was Philip Niarchos and he
wanted to come over to see my house but I didn’t want him to so I said I
was already in bed.
Tuesday, March 22, 1977
As I went out the door the phone rang and it was Brigid after all these
weeks saying that she wanted me to come over to her mother’s right away
and see her. So I walked over to 834 Fifth Avenue to Honey and Dick’s and
Brigid came down the staircase looking gorgeous, like a version of Honey. I
offered her a job at the office. We talked for twenty minutes about what
happened to her ass, it just isn’t there anymore. I told her she should never
see Bad because if she did and saw herself that fat and with the farting
sounds, she’d be furious at us.
Went to Mortimer’s for a party for Edie Vonnegut’s picture-drawing that
she did of “Mortimer.” Is there really a Mortimer? And I couldn’t believe
the drawings would be that bad. Kurt Vonnegut was there, gave a little
speech about how talented his daughter was. Remember she was married to
Geraldo Rivera?
Ruth Kligman kissed me and I didn’t know what she was doing, she
started talking all about a love affair she said we had together, apologizing
for breaking it off, kissing me, and it was all a fantasy, so I thought that if
she could do that with me, then she’d probably never had a love affair with
Pollock. She looked good, she was in a velvet Halston. Fred’s date was
Edna O’Brien. Barbara Allen was there. She said that she’d wanted to wear
the diamond earrings Philip had just given her but that he made her put
them in the vault.
Wednesday, March 23, 1977—New York—Los
Angeles
Met at the airport by Susan Pile with a limousine and a lot of promo
material and she said she was giving a big screening and a party on
Thursday for Bad and we told her she should have told us before, that we
were already booked for Thursday.
Checked into the Beverly Hills Hotel and they gave us the most horrible
rooms. We all sat around Suzie Frankfurt’s room while Susan Pile was
doing some business with Fred in his room on another floor. Suzie’s friend
Joan Quinn came by, she invited us to dinner at a Mexican restaurant,
picked us up in two cars. Really great food. Met Joan’s husband, Jack the
lawyer.
Went to bed around 1:00.
Friday, March 25, 1977—Los Angeles
Up at 7:00. Todd Brassner called and said he just saw Muhammad Ali in the
Polo Lounge, and that he also saw Charles Bronson in the lobby. Fred and I
had to go to a meeting at Roger Corman’s office, so cabbed there ($5). It
was a brand-new building, met all the young kids who work for him. Fred
said Roger was “very shy and never gives interviews” but he’s not shy, I
noticed, and he’s been giving a lot of them lately.
Diana Vreeland had a limo and we were going out to George Cukor’s
with her. George wouldn’t let me take photos. I was disappointed. He said
he loved Bad, raved about it. He’d seen it the day before with Paul
Morrissey at Susan Pile’s big screening at the Picwood Theater—Jack
Nicholson and Warren Beatty and Julie Christie went, 750 people.
Fred and I went back to the hotel to get ready for Sue Mengers’s dinner
party in Bel Air. Picked up Diana. Ryan and Tatum were at Sue’s, and
Barbra Streisand and Jon Peters. Diana went over and told Barbra off about
something. Candy Bergen and Roman Polanski were there. It was a party
for Sidney Lumet. He hates me and his wife Gail doesn’t know whether she
does or not, but she follows what her husband does so she’s cold. Sidney
runs around kissing everybody and then stops when he gets to me. Film
directors used to be such macho guys, and now they’re these little fairy-type
guys running around French-style double-kissing but still thinking they’re
macho.
Joanne Woodward and Paul Newman sat with Fred during dinner and
they said they wanted to come down to the office. Lillian Hellman was
there. Roman said Gene Hackman wanted to meet me, but Diana didn’t
know who he was and didn’t want to go over. She told Roman that Gene
should come over and he did, and he was darling, and Diana still couldn’t
place him although she’d seen The French Connection.
Marisa was there with her hubby, the gossip was that they’d had a big
fight and broken up. But the big event of the evening was when the maid
came in with extra food and fell completely across the room. Sue looked
concerned but I think she was just worried about getting sued. It was just
like watching a movie. The food was flying all over everybody. She must
have really hurt herself but she got up and pretended nothing had happened.
She was around fifty, glasses.
Then went to Alana Hamilton’s party for Mick Flick, and she had
everybody there. Diana was getting drunker and drunker, and Fred, too.
Valerie Perrine, Tony Curtis, and Nelson Lyon, sober, were there. Ron
Wood invited me to Top of the Rox but I wanted to go home. Diana was
getting jealous because Fred was with Jacqueline Bisset, he didn’t know
Jackie’s French boyfriend was there with her. Diana told Fred time to leave
and he said no, and she got really upset and left and I took her home and
she wanted me to go up and discuss Fred with her over drinks and I just
said no and ran out. She thinks she has something going with him.
Saturday, March 26, 1977—Los Angeles
Read the rave review of Bad in The Los Angeles Times.
Went to Susan Tyrrell’s party, it was really great. Tatum was there, and
her little brother, and Ryan’s brother, Kevin O’Neal, and Chu Chu Malave,
the boxer, and Tim Curry from The Rocky Horror Picture Show, Garfunkel,
Art “Murph” who wrote the Variety review, Barry Diller, Buck Henry who
really loves Bad, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Fred Williamson, Tere Tereba,
Corinne Calvert and her son, Ronee Blakley and her brother, Sally
Kirkland, Don Rugoff, Paul Morrissey, Thelma Houston, Ed Begley, Jr.,
Martin Mull the wife-beater on Mary Hartman—200 people like that.
Michael Bloomfield who did the Bad soundtrack came as we were leaving.
Ron Galella was taking pictures.
I had to leave to go to the Bad screening. What was so great about
seeing the movie at Filmex was that everything had such big significance,
suddenly, because the screen was so big, so much more Pop—like that
Santa Claus knick-knack on Carroll Baker’s refrigerator. I want to rent a big
theater for a screening in New York. Got back to the hotel about 3:00.
Sunday, March 27, 1977—Los Angeles
Met Esther, Doug Christmas’s PR person, at the Polo Lounge and she
invited us to the French consulate for the Film Festival, and I invited Doug
Christmas and at 7:30 we went. Met King Vidor who said he knew all about
me. Bobby Neuwirth was there and I talked with him about his old
girlfriend, Andrea Portago, and Edie Sedgwick. Viva was there with her
daughter Alexandra who was sucking her thumb. Seeing Alexandra was sad
—a big “rug-rat” hanging off Viva—she’ll probably turn out a mess. Viva
will do everything the opposite that her parents did and it’ll be just as bad.
Monday, March 28, 1977—Los Angeles
Up at 7:00. Watched the Today Show, air crash with over 550 people getting
killed, two 747s crashing. Fred went to see Paul Getty’s ear transplant at
Cedars-Sinai Hospital. Peter Lester called and made a date for us to
interview William Katt, the star of Carrie, and his press agent at the Polo
Lounge at 1:00.
Talked to William Katt. His father was movie star Bill Williams and his
mother Barbara Hale was Della Street on Perry Mason. A good interview.
Then sat in the lobby for a second and met Liv Ullmann.
The place was really jumping with stars all getting ready to go to the
Academy Awards. At 4:00 I went to Fred’s room to photograph Willie
Shoemaker the jockey. Richard Weisman’s commissioned me to do a series
of athletes’ portraits. Richard will keep some of the portraits and some will
be for sale and the athletes will get to keep some. So Willie was the first
athlete. Had to get some film (cab to Schwab’s $3, film $15.30—lost slip).
Willie’s wife called from the lobby and she came up with a girlfriend—but
without Willie. He didn’t show up till ten after 5:00 and when he saw her,
he couldn’t believe she was there. He’d been in court getting a divorce from
her, that’s why he was late.
Willie’s ex-wife of one hour was one of the tallest women I’ve ever
seen. She was dressing Willie for the picture and he looked like an eight-
year-old kid. And guess what he was wearing—little Jockey shorts! Ordered
martinis, and the wife was drinking. She kept asking him for a date to
celebrate the divorce and he kept turning her down, he said, “If I’d known
you were going to be here I wouldn’t have come.”
Alana Hamilton called to invite us to an Academy Awards party at Dani
Janssen’s. I missed Ronee Blakley’s invitation to go to the Oscars ceremony
with her because I was in Fred’s room.
Got picked up at 7:45 by Alana Hamilton. Drove to Century City. They
were having a $10 bet pool on the Academy Awards and it cost me $20.
Brand-new apartment building, very rich, overlooking all of Hollywood.
Dani’s getting a divorce from David, Alana’s getting a divorce from
George.
Jack Haley said Liza was in Detroit with her show and coming back the
next day. Dick Sylbert was there. Valerie Perrine told me her life story, she
was once a chip hustler in Las Vegas and on the verge of marrying some
rich guy after eight years but he shot himself accidentally. Her eyes teared
up, she was unhappy. When Martin Scorsese came in she ran over to rustle
up a job.
Burgess Meredith came with his date. Rocky got Best Picture. Peter
Finch got Best Actor, but he’s dead. Nelson Lyon was in the audience as the
date of Mrs. Finch, Eletha. She’s very black. The Academy asked Paddy
Chayevsky go up to accept Peter Finch’s award. Burgess and I talked about
his ex-wife, Paulette.
Brenda Vaccaro was upset because her ex-fiancé Michael Douglas was
there with his brand-new wife that he met at the inauguration. James Caan
was there with his boyish wife, a beauty. They’re all marrying younger girls
who look like they’re thirteen, the Hollywood thing. Roman was there, he’s
out on bail now for the thirteen-year-old-girl. He jumped on Alana’s ass and
said he was going to rape her.
Martin Scorsese with his wife, Julia. Jackie Bisset. Lee Grant. Burt
Young from Rocky. A girl from Big Valley, Linda Evans, really beautiful.
Tony Curtis was giving people puffs on his marijuana.
Julia Scorsese said that Martin would take me and Fred in his limo. She
was drunk, screaming something about death threats, but I didn’t know
what she was talking about.
As we got into the car Martin said he had a bomb threat, the note said
that he would die one minute after midnight if Jodie Foster won the
Academy Award. It was 2:00 now and he was going to MGM to work on
New York, New York in the dark and deserted MGM lot, alone. I was
paranoid. Esther Phillips was calling me at the hotel but I didn’t answer the
calls because she’s started to scare me—one of her calls was at 2 A.M.
Tuesday, March 29, 1977—Los Angeles—New
York
Got the American 1:00 plane to New York. Noticed Paddy Chayevsky being
driven on a little cart to the plane while we walked. Lots of people from the
Academy Awards getting on the plane. The first class took up practically
half the plane—first time I saw it so full, really interesting. John Travolta
from Welcome Back, Kotter walked by, sort of said hi to me, sat in front of
me. Paddy Chayevsky told the stewardess he wanted to sleep all during the
trip, not to wake him up, but he woke up five minutes after the plane was in
the air.
John Travolta kept going to the bathroom, coming out with his eyes
bright red, drinking orange juice and liquor in a paper cup, and he put his
head in a pillow and started crying. I saw him reading a script, too, so I
thought he was acting. Really cute and sensitive-looking, very tall, comes
off looking too fairy-ish, like too many people around now, but very good-
looking. You can see the magic in him. I asked the stewardess why he was
crying and she said “death in the family” so I thought it was a mother or
father, until I picked up the paper at home and found out that it was Diana
Hyland who’d died of cancer at forty-one, soap-opera queen, his steady
date.
Dropped Fred and Todd Brassner (cab $27). Cab fares had gone up.
Thursday, March 31, 1977
Lunch with Victor ($16), then we walked over to the loft building on 19th
and Fifth that Maxime’s moving into and that Victor is thinking of buying a
floor in, too. I tried to discourage him, saying that it was really too small. It
was. I can’t figure out why Maxime wants to go there, it’s no bigger than
her apartment. She says, “I just want one big room,” but when she moves
all her furniture in, it won’t even look or feel big at all. And it costs
$32,000.
Victor and his boyfriend walked me back to the office. A fortune teller
told Victor’s boyfriend that he would be hit by a cab. Then she said maybe
that wasn’t right, that she’d better read the tarot cards, too, so she did, and
then she said, “It’s going to happen even quicker than I thought.” So now
the kid is really worried. She charged him $5 and first he said, “I’m not
going to pay you for telling me that,” and she said he had to so he did. How
could a person do that! I mean, that’s the kind of thing that really really
really stays in your mind. The reason the kid went there in the first place
was because his friends had told him she was so good. To make him feel
better all I could think to say was that maybe she could see he was a
careless person and had told him that to make him more careful.
I was invited to Diane Von Furstenberg’s dinner for Sue Mengers. Went
home, glued myself together, cab to DVF’s ($2.25). It was a very heavy
newspaper-reporter dinner. Mr. Grunwald from Time magazine, Nora
Ephron—didn’t see her husband, Carl Bernstein, though—Helen Gurley
Brown and her husband David, Irene Selznick, and DVF’s boyfriend, Barry
Diller. I was feeling very talkative so I talked and I talked, but nobody
listened to anything I said, they just ignored me. I know that Diller doesn’t
like me, so I worked hard to change his mind but he was still awful to me.
Bianca was there. I thought she’d already left for Paris. She was saying
out loud everything I was thinking—what two bitches Diane Von
Furstenberg and Sue Mengers were—and she said, “At least Sue can be
funny sometimes.” Sue was on her way to Europe to meet her husband, who
only lets her see him once every couple of months, I think.
I told Irene Selznick that I’d seen a great picture of her at George
Cukor’s. I was raving about California so much that everybody thinks I’m
moving there.
Helen Gurley Brown sat at my feet and I talked to her about California.
Bianca was talking about how boring all these people were to Mr.
Grunwald, she didn’t know who he was, and then after he went away I told
her. They were all two-faced people there, and Diane only invited me to pay
me back for the Interview cover, and I mean, who cared. Diane is very
skinny. Dino De Laurentiis came late with his wife, Silvana Mangano, she
was wearing a white Oscar de la Renta and said she was cold.
Egon Von Furstenberg came in with his girlfriend, the one that used to
come to the Factory who I can’t stand, and I guess she finally realizes that I
hate her, because she didn’t say anything to me. Her name starts with M,
something like Marita. He’ll never marry her.
Bianca said she wanted to go dancing and called her answering service
but there was nothing on it so she stayed. She was wearing a thrift-store
dress that she got in California that was really beautiful. When the De
Laurentiises walked by us to leave she said, “They’re full of shit.” I left
alone. Had a horrible time.
Friday, April 1, 1977
Went to Halston’s birthday dinner for Victor at Pearl’s, he didn’t want to do
a big thing at the house. Joe Eula was there. And Aly Kaiser. She has two
bodyguards now because of her Greek husband that she’s divorcing—she
has one bodyguard driving her and one at home.
She had as a present for Victor a bag of Hawaiian marijuana that a
couple of fag friends who have a ranch there mailed to her in a box of
perfumed shirts so you wouldn’t smell the marijuana. She said she gave
some to one of her bodyguards and he was passed out at home. She says
she’ll let me take pictures of her as soon as she gets her divorce. Before it
was “as soon as I get the plastic in my face from Dr. Orentreich.” I talked to
Dr. Giller, he seems so sensible. He said that only fish and chicken and
fresh vegetables were good for you, even though he himself liked Chinese
food. He told Mrs. Kaiser where she could get fresh chickens kosher on the
Lower East Side, and she said she’d send one of her bodyguards down for
some, she’s been sending him out to do her shopping. She was wearing
twenty carats on each ear and a diamond bracelet, too. She’s really nice.
She had a car out front, too, with her dog who wears the chauffeur’s cap.
Monday, April 4, 1977
Rod Gilbert the Canadian hockey player came down to be photographed for
the Athletes series. He had 100 scars on his face, but I couldn’t see them,
really. He autographed a hockey stick for me and I autographed Philosophy
books for him, but made a mistake and put “Ron” instead of “Rod.” Bought
light bulbs ($4.02).
Tuesday, April 5, 1977
Worked until 7:45. At 9:00 cabbed to Fred’s ($2.25). Rebecca Fraser was
there. She’s the daughter of Antonia Fraser who’s now going with Harold
Pinter. Rebecca is checking hats at One Fifth. She’s going to be a “View
Girl” in Interview. She’s really cute, she nodded out while Fred was talking
to her a few times. Diana Vreeland was there, Mick Jagger arrived. Camilla
and Earl McGrath, Jean Van den Heuvel, Tom Hess who did the good
review of my Hammers & Sickles in New York. Caroline Kennedy was
there. Her face is so beautiful, but she got really fat, her behind is so big—
as fat as Brigid’s was. She’s on Easter vacation from Radcliffe. She was the
first person to leave, I think she has to be home before midnight, on a
schedule, because once when she was at Fred’s she stayed until 4:00 and
Jackie got mad.
The dinner was to say goodbye to Erskine Guinness and his cousin
Miranda, they’re leaving for Ireland.
Wednesday, April 6, 1977
Took “landscape” pictures of an ex-porno star Victor brought down who it
turns out has a shop on Madison Avenue that sells Lalique. Dropped them
off (cab $3).
There was something in the Post today about Adela Holzer, she’s getting
sued for keeping investors’ money in a bank in Jakarta and not paying them
back.
On TV I got a big mention when Barbara Walters interviewed the
empress of Iran. In with the other art they did a big closeup on my Mick
print and Barbara said, “And surprisingly, they have a painting of rock star
Mick Jagger by Andy Warhol,” and the empress said, “I like to keep
modern.”
Thursday, April 7, 1977
Some people from Joseph Papp’s company came to lunch, we were trying
to get them to advertise in Interview. Cabbed up to the Sherry Netherland
with Bob to interview Sissy Spacek for Interview ($4). We brought copies
of the Carroll Baker Interview with us. Carroll’s name is spelled wrong on
the cover. Sissy’s mother was there and she said hello and went into the
other room to read Interview, and then Bob got nervous because he thought
Sissy was fifteen and her mother would see the nude photograph we ran of
Yul Brynner when he was young—that famous old photo. But Sissy’s really
twenty-seven and she’s married, her mother was just with her, not
chaperoning her. We’re going to have to research better.
She’s Czech, from a Czechoslovakian town in Texas which I’d never
heard of. And I couldn’t believe it when she said she’d been an extra in the
“crowd” scene in our movie Women in Revolt —the bar scene that we
filmed in Paul Morrissey’s basement on East 6th Street—and she said she
was also in the background singing on that Lonesome Cowboys theme song
record that Bob Goldstein wrote and Eric Emerson sang! She folded her
legs up under her on the chairs. She has beautiful skin.
Friday, April 8, 1977
Went with Jed to see Sissy Spacek in Carrie (cab $2.50, tickets $3). Loved
it. Finally somebody did slow motion right.
Saturday, April 9, 1977
Brigid called and started screaming because she found out that Bad was X-
rated for violence just because a baby gets thrown out a window! You don’t
even see it land! Brigid was yelling for “getting me into another X-rated
movie.” I can’t believe the distributor—Corman—didn’t fight that, it’s just
so ridiculous.
Sunday, April 10,1977
Went to early mass, a beautiful day, warm and sunny (newspapers and mags
for the week $20). Cab to Kitty Miller’s for Easter lunch ($2).
Then cab to 135 Central Park West with Fred to Marsia Trinder and
Lenny Holzer’s ($3). Marsia was having an Easter party. Mick was there
with Jade. Bianca didn’t come, she said that Fred would give her the gossip
anyway and that it would just be “a bunch of English whores” there, and
she was right—it was all the English boy and girl whores.
Rebecca was passed out there. Earl McGrath was there. Jade took my
camera and was taking pictures of people, mostly of her father, Mick.
Marsia had hidden eggs all around the apartment, like unscrewing the light
bulb and putting an egg there, and under pillows, and the kids went looking.
Jade found most of them and threw them on the floor. The real eggs, not
chocolate. Andrea Portago was there and this is a secret—she’s the new
Nina Ricci girl. They’re reviving that Rich Girl promotion idea for
perfumes, they’ve been looking for a long time. Remember last year when
they interviewed Barbara Allen?
Andrea said she was out with Dennis Hopper and they went up to
Elaine’s and she started playing backgammon with Elaine and she won one
and Elaine won one, and then they started a third game and Andrea was
losing and then she won, and Elaine got mad and called her a “rich bitch”
and told her not to come in there again. Elaine doesn’t like to lose.
Monday, April 11,1977
Cabbed down to Chembank and walked over to the office (cab $3.25).
Ronnie and Gigi had another fight and he cut up her clothes. I remember
René Ricard once did that to the girl he married. I had lunch with Ronnie
and gave him my “there’s always somebody else around the corner”
philosophy, and Ronnie said yeah, that he had six girlfriends now. He said,
“I’m not coked up, I’m not upset, I’m fine, I’m fine.”
Worked very late, a little after 8:00. I was going to the movies but then it
got too late. Wound up taking the dogs for a long walk with Jed up to 80th
and back down, had a good time.
Tuesday, April 12, 1977
Mick wants me to do the cover on his next album. I’m trying to think of
ideas, how to do “Rolling Stones,” one of those little plastic games where
you have to roll the stones into the holes.
Victor called and said that it was getting too heavy at Halston’s and that
he was moving into the loft on 19th and 5th, renting with an option to buy.
Until he moves in in May he’ll be sleeping around, he said.
Wednesday, April 13, 1977
I was going up for cocktails and then dinner for Jean Stein at her sister
Susan Shiva’s apartment in the Dakota. I thought it couldn’t be anything
great so I was forty-five minutes late ($3). The first person I saw when I
walked in the door was Jackie O., looking beautiful. Then Norman Mailer.
Jackie was talking to Jean’s boyfriend who works for the Smithsonian.
Delfina Rattazzi who still works for Jackie at Viking was there with such a
complete new look I didn’t recognize her—curly hair and a sexy dress.
Sue Mengers was there, and she came over to me and said her knees
were buckling, that she’d never been to a party like this. Babe Paley and her
chairman-of-CBS husband went by, and later when I saw Sue and Paley
sitting together I remembered what Sue had told me in California, that the
only job she ever wanted was Paley’s.
I told Norman Mailer I loved him on the Academy Awards and he said
he’d just seen a video of how fast he’d come down the ramp—Billy
Friedkin had told him to do it that way. Renata Adler who writes for the
New Yorker was there with Avedon. She said she’s going to law school now
at Yale but she thinks she’ll maybe drop out. She says it’s so hard, and that
she can’t remember anything.
I had the first really nice talk with Jackie O. but I don’t remember too
much what it was about. The Magic of People in the Movies, or something.
Sue Mengers was running around this party bragging the same thing that
she always brags—that she could offer President Carter a three-picture deal
at $3 million a picture and that he’d take it, because everybody wants to be
in the movies. So I pointed at Jackie and told Sue to go prove it, but she was
afraid, she wouldn’t go over to her and make the offer. Andrew Young from
the U.N. and another black guy were there. Sue was thrilled to meet them.
Dennis Hopper told me he’s directing Junkie, the William Burroughs
bio, and I made a faux pas by telling him he should use Mick for the star
because then Dennis said that he was the star.
A son of Nick Dunne was there, trying to be an actor now. Then Earl
took me into the back rooms of the house, and there were ten girls around
seventeen or eighteen, full-grown, the age of Jean’s daughter who’s in
college, and they were like having a slumber party, guessing at who was out
there at the “grownup” party! But these girls were so old, it was funny.
They were thrilled to see me, I signed the TV, the armoire, their hands,
everything. Every half-hour they’d let one girl out and into the party.
Dropped off Nick Dunne’s son on 90th and Central Park West (cab $5).
Friday, April 15,1977
We had our first nut at 860 yesterday—Diane Coffman came up. We’ve had
nuts before but not one that we knew. She was in our play, Pork, in ‘70 or
‘71. The director, Tony Ingrassia, must have discovered her. She kept
saying, “You know how to spell Coffman? C-O-F-F-M-A-N.” Had to give
her money ($10).
Lunch was for Diana Vreeland and an Argentinian woman, and Bob had
invited Michael and Pat York. Carole Rogers and Sally from Interview had
invited a hi-fi girl to try to sell her ads. The girl was impressed with Diana
and the Yorks, she thought she was just going to have lunch with Carole and
Sally. Diana was saying that she’d discovered the museum had turned the
lights up and the music down on her Russian costume show—they said it
was because some people had complained they couldn’t see anything and
the music was too loud. Diana said that you don’t go change something
because somebody asks you to, that that’s the trouble with this country, they
want to “give the public what it wants.” “Well,” she said, “the public wants
what it can’t get, and it’s up to museums to teach them what to want.” And
she said that’s the trouble with Vogue magazine and all the other magazines
today—except for Interview, she said.
Sunday, April 17, 1977
Went to church and while I was kneeling and praying for money a
shopping-bag lady came in and asked me for some. She asked for $5 and
then upped it to $10. It was like Viva. I gave her a nickel. She started
putting her hand in my pocket. She looked like an older version of Brigid
with straight hair.
Gave autographs outside. Cabbed down to the office ($4). While I was at
work Diane Coff-man called and I told her I was the janitor and she
believed me. After I gave her the $10 on Friday, incidentally, she went out
and bought some stupid flowers with it. She came back and showed me.
Read lots of old Vanity Fairs for ideas, they looked so beautiful.
And Fred has been much busier than me—after the big de Menil party
on Saturday he went to Lally Weymouth’s party which was for lots of
heavies, and I was complaining that I wasn’t invited and Fred said, “You
didn’t sleep with her.”
Wednesday, April 20, 1977
On the way downtown I ran into Lewis Allen, who invited me to the
opening of Annie, and then ran into Alan Bates who’s been in town for a
couple of months to work on a Paul Mazursky movie. I always say to them
that I’ll call them and interview them, but I’ve got to stop staying that
because it’s ridiculous—like I’m so sure they want to be interviewed.
At 8:15 went to the Iranian embassy (cab $3). Hoveyda seemed nervous.
It was a party for a man who used to be the chief editor of Newsweek,
Osborn Elliott. I was next to Mrs. Astor, and on my other side Frank Perry.
Mrs. Astor said she wished she had a tail so she could shake hands with
people and hold cocktails and put on lipstick all at once.
Thursday, April 21, 1977
Went with Bob to pick up Bianca to take her to a dinner that Sandy Milliken
was giving at his loft in Soho and Jade came downstairs and said, “Andy
Warhol, you never come to see me anymore.” Jade asked us if we wanted
something to drink and we said, “Two vodkas on the rocks,” and she said to
the Spanish maid, “Dos vodkas con heilo.” I wanted her to sing, and so she
did “Frère Jacques,” and I asked her to sing “Satisfaction” and she’d never
heard of it. She sang “Ring Around the Roses” but she said, “Tissue, tissue,
all fall down.” I asked her to make up a song about her day and she started
to sing: “I invited another child at school to come for dinner/ But they
wouldn’t come/They think we’re crazy/But they’re crazy.”
Bianca came down in a white cotton skirt and blue blouse, but then
looked at us dressed so formal and went back up and put on a gold and
black lamé dress and gold shoes.
As we were leaving, Jade said, “Now Andy Warhol, I want you to visit
more often.” Then she kissed everyone but she forgot about Bianca, and
Bianca said, “What about me?” and Jade crawled over on the floor and
kissed her, too. Cabbed to 141 Prince Street. Very fancy loft building. I got
jealous that I didn’t buy more buildings down there when they were cheap
—lots of them.
Monday, May 23, 1977
Tina Fredericks called and said that Tommy Schippers wouldn’t be renting
our place in Montauk. His wife died of cancer and now he has the same
kind and that scared me—I guess you can catch it from other people.
Wednesday, May 25, 1977—Paris
Arrived in Paris around 9 A.M. Went to Fred’s apartment on Rue du
Cherche-Midi.
All Fred’s chic antiques are looking more and more like just junk
covered in rags.
William Burke arrived with breakfast.
Did interviews with Le Monde, Le Figaro, and Elle that’d been arranged
by Flammarion, our French publisher. Then it was time to go to the
Beaubourg to sign Philosophy books at their bookshop (cab $5).
Shirley Goldfarb came, and Daniel Templon came, he’s giving the
Hammer & Sickle show next Tuesday, and about 100 dirty kids in punk
clothes.
Pontus Hulten, the director of the Beaubourg, showed up and took us on
a tour. First we went into the big Tinguely sculpture being constructed in
the middle of the ground floor. He took us to a storeroom stuffed with
chocolate and gave us some. It smelled so good, the chocolate room.
Then we saw the Kienholz show and then the Paris/New York show
opening next week and then the permanent collection. This took two hours
and Bob was passing out but I had energy and wanted to just rush home and
paint and stop doing society portraits.
Thursday, May 26, 1977—Paris—Brussels
Went to lunch with Clara Sant of Yves Saint Laurent and Paloma Picasso at
Angelina. Clara looked good, thinner, and Paloma, too. Clara’s suffering
through the marriage of her boyfriend Thadée Klossowski to Loulou de la
Falaise. She first found out by an official notice in Le Figaro placed by
Thadée and Loulou. She’s getting her sense of humor back now so she’s
getting over it. I said Clara and I should announce our marriage in Le
Figaro to outdo them.
Cabbed to train station ($8). Had our own compartment. Fell asleep.
Arrived Brussels at 7:00. Mr. LeBruin, the art dealer showing my pictures,
greeted us with a couple of hippie boys. Checked into the not-chic Hotel
Brussels. We all had duplex suites which was crazy, because whenever the
doorbell rang you’d be upstairs in the bathroom and you’d have to rush
down the floating staircase to answer it.
Rushed to Galerie D. A mob scene. Stuck in a corner signing autographs
and books. Sold 120.
The kids here were cute, sort of hippie. Around 9:00 made a fast chic
exit through mob into our chauffeured Chevy and expected to be whisked
away but then we saw that there was nobody in the driver’s seat. A kid
offered me an ice cream cone and I said no, so he splattered it all over the
roof of the car and it dripped down the windows. The kids started laughing
at us, just sitting there for twenty minutes. Finally the chauffeur arrived and
said he’d been peeing.
Stopped at Leon Lambert’s. He lives in the penthouse of a ten-story
building above his bank. The place is unbelievable, so simple and so much
art from Van Gogh to Picasso to—Warhol. Saw his bedroom behind a
bookcase in the library. Secret apartment with two bedrooms, one for his
regular boyfriend, one for one-night stands. After dinner in a little bistro in
the Galleria we walked down the arcade. Stopped at a gay bar and Bob
asked the most beautiful boy in Belgium to dance so they did, but when
Bob gave him a peck on the neck and that led to the lips Fred and I got
embarrassed because everyone said boys don’t do that in public in Brussels
—even in gay bars!
Friday, May 27, 1977—Brussels—Paris
Slept on train. Rented a car ($20) to take us to William Burke’s gallery
where he was having a show of photos of me and also a book signing.
Paloma was waiting in the alley for us. Nico [see Introduction] was there
with a young kid with a big bulge in his pants, she asked Bob to photograph
him. Bob already had. Nico looked older and fatter and sadder. She was
crying, she said, because of the beauty of the show. I wanted to give her
some money but not directly so I signed a 500-franc note ($100) and
handed it to her and she got even more sentimental and said, “I must frame
this, can you give me another one, unsigned, to spend?” ($100, cab to
Regine’s $4). Barbara and Philip were there, Regine and her husband. Then
Maria Niarchos arrived. Regine was all excited by the success of her punk
party the night before, said she served chocolate mousse in dog dishes. Got
tired of waiting for Bianca so we sat down to dinner around 11:00. Dinner
was crayfish, goose, fruit plates—very good. A beautiful English girl was
putting down Maria as “amoral” because she was showing off her cleavage
where I’d signed it. Fred was very drunk and started defending Maria and
saying, “What is morality anyway?” and they fought for the rest of the
night. It was so French.
At 3 A.M. just when we decided to leave Bianca called and said to
please wait for her. She arrived a minute later looking great and the party
started all over again. She was wearing a beautiful Fabergé amethyst.
Around 6:00 when the waiters started sweeping up we left.
Saturday, May 28, 1977—Paris
Went out to dinner at Monsieur Boeuf. When Bianca arrived she passed out
some Locker Room poppers and Barbara Allen didn’t want Philip Niarchos
to take any so she hid them and later when Bianca ran out of them she
begged Barbara for them back. Meanwhile some creepy girl recognized me
—we were dining al fresco because it was a beautiful night, clear sky and
big moon—and she started screaming in French that she loved me but that I
abandoned the underground and that she was a necrophiliac just released
from a mental institution. It sort of ruined dinner. Fred was tired and went
home. We dropped Philip and Barbara at the Ritz, Bianca had a car. In the
car after we dropped them Bianca said she didn’t know what to do, because
Barbara had asked her if she knew if Philip slept with any other girls when
he was down in the south of France last week. Bianca told us he’d been
with Anouk Aimée’s daughter, Manuela Papatakis, and Bianca didn’t know
whether to tell Barbara the truth and hurt her, or lie and have her find out
from someone else and then think that Bianca wasn’t her real friend.
Barbara had refused to go to the south of France with him because she had a
“screen test” with Jack Nicholson.
Monday, May 30, 1977—Paris
Dead in Paris, it was Pentecost. Got up to meet Bianca to go to the tennis
matches. Bob and Fred were in the crabbiest moods ever.
Fred called Bianca and she said she was running late, so we ran late but
we were still early when we got to the Plaza-Athénée (taxi $4). James
Mason was in the lobby.
Then Bianca appeared in white slacks, black halter top with an amethyst
pinned to it. She said she had been up until 5 A.M. at the Sept just talking to
the tennis player who never makes it with anyone but his wife. She said he
wanted to make it with her but she hates affairs because they get “too
complicated.” Who’s she trying to kid?
Tuesday, May 31, 1977—Paris
Cabbed to Plaza-Athénée ($ 5) to meet Bianca to interview Ungaro. Bianca
had a small but beautiful suite with a terrace facing the courtyard filled with
geraniums and red umbrellas. Read an English newspaper. Ate an orange
that was there while we waited. She was looking all over for her Fabergé
amethyst and when she couldn’t find it she said she couldn’t do the
interview with us and she ran out to Castel’s to crawl on her hands and
knees looking for it—she thought she lost it there the night before.
Bettina was the first to arrive for lunch so we interviewed her. She
works for Ungaro now. She was wearing a Bulgari snake watch and white
Ungaro suit. Then Ungaro finally arrived. He was wearing a white suit, too.
Then went to his place. Princess Grace and Caroline of Monaco ran out
of Ungaro Couture when they heard we were next door at Ungaro Homme.
Bob bought a suit. Then we went to the Rue Beaubourg for my Hammer &
Sickle opening at the Galerie Daniel Templon. All the same punks were
there plus São Schlumberger in a blue Givenchy. She was on her way to
Florence Van der Kemp’s dinner in Versailles.
Barbara Allen came early and told us all her own gossip—she and Philip
Niarchos had a big fight last night. He accused her of having affairs with
Jack, Warren, and Mick. She didn’t deny it even though she says she hasn’t.
He admitted to her his affair with Manuela Papatakis in the south of France
plus one other plus three hookers. In three weeks. They made a pact that
when they are together they are “together,” but when they’re not, they’re
“not.”
Some punks had a fight and a tooth got knocked out. They started
screaming my name loudly so I was locked into the office. Then it was time
to leave for dinner. On the way out a drunk creep kissed me smack on the
lips and I almost fainted.
Oh, and Bianca was in a great mood because they’d found her amethyst.
She had threatened to bring in private detectives. So they questioned the
help—they’ve all worked there for years— and the oldest man was the one
who’d found it when he cleaned up and kept it.
Wednesday, June 1, 1977—Paris
Barbara Allen called and said we were invited to meet at the Brandolinis’
for drinks. Then Maria Niarchos called and said she wanted us to see her
father’s palace (cab $3). We walked in through the garden and went into the
marble foyer then down the gold-on-gold-on-gold hallway and into a salon
covered in great Impressionist paintings, all lit in the dark—they almost
looked fake. Maria made us drinks and then we toured the grand bathrooms
and bedrooms and sitting rooms and Philip’s office, which is so grand in
order to scare the people he does business with. Then we cabbed to the
Brandolinis’ ($4). Everyone—except me—went into the bathroom all at one
time. Bob will probably say that I had a little bit of coke, too, but I did not.
But I did kiss Roberto out on the balcony overlooking Van Cleef and
(laughs) he said, “Please, I’m married and have a kid.” Got home around
4:00 (cab $3).
Thursday, June 2, 1977—Paris
Joel LeBon was shooting me for the Façade cover with Edwige, a girl punk
(cab to the studio in Trocadero $8). It took Joel three hours to do one shot
under very hot lights.
At night I stayed home. Bob escorted Bianca to Castel’s where he said
they ran into Maria Niarchos and her youngest brother Constantin, who’s
sixteen, losing his baby fat, and he’d been to his first whore that afternoon
—Barbara told them that but said not to tell. She said that Philip sent the
whore from Madame Claude’s, the best place in Paris. The girl was not too
tall, not too short, not too light, not too dark—all on purpose, so that
Constantin wouldn’t get stuck on any one type.
Friday, June 3, 1977—Paris
We went to Castel’s (taxi $4). The same old crowd was there, having
Caroline of Monaco’s secret engagement dinner to Philippe Junot. We
weren’t asked.
Sunday, June 5, 1977—New York
Made lots of calls around town, catching up. Vincent was in Montauk
showing Louis Malle the place, hoping for a rental. We’re trying to rent the
main house for $4,000 a month during July and August—$26,000 for six
months. Two thousand a month for the small cottages, but we’ll deal. Mr.
Winters wears his Bad T-shirt and his Rolling Stones denim jacket while he
takes care of the place. He needs a new Jeep—he has a door hinge for an
accelerator pedal. He handed Vincent a magazine clipping that said I buy a
new car for myself every year, to help make his case for a new Jeep.
Tuesday, June 7, 1977
Dennis Hopper and Caterine Milinaire and Terry Southern and a
photographer from Time came by. Her job was to follow Dennis around,
and he wanted to come to the Factory and have her follow him there. There
was just an article in Time or Newsweek on the Apocalypse Now movie that
Coppola is finishing. Dennis is playing a crazed hippie photographer in it.
The photographer from Time took pictures of Caterine taking pictures of
Dennis taking pictures of me taking pictures of Dennis.
Chris Makos brought down a “landscape” but then Victor brought down
two and he made me do his first. Chris’s was from the Harvard Drama
School.
Dennis Hopper came and was watching me photograph the nude boy,
but Victor didn’t know who Dennis was and threw him out.
Thursday, June 9, 1977
Got to the St. Regis at 11:30 for the Jewish Anti-Defamation League
testimonial to Elizabeth Taylor. Liz and Halston weren’t there yet. I met the
president of Cartier. Eugenia Sheppard was there. Hermione Gingold was
there. A woman who didn’t even have to say she was Bob Feiden’s mother
came over to me and said that, because she looked just like Bob Feiden but
with jewelry. John Springer and Liz and Halston arrived. There were two or
three Liz lookalikes there, one introduced herself to Liz.
I was next to Mary Beame, the wife of Mayor Abe Beame. There were a
few anti-defamation people on the dais, and Hal Prince and Mike Todd, Jr.
Liv Ullmann led the prayer, and Diane Von Furstenberg was there. Livia
Weintraub who was good-looking gave a speech about being in a
concentration camp, and she ended it with a plug for her new perfume,
“Livia.” She gave Liz one of the first batch of 50. Dore Schary was there,
he founded the league. It was rotten food— gold salmon.
Then they gave Liz the plaque which had raw amethyst all over it—the
stuff ashtrays are made of—it was of Mt. Sinai and at the top in gold was
the Ten Commandments. Liz was in river purple, she got up and gave a
little speech, very breathy and sincere, like, “I’m just like all of you—when
I care about something, I do something about it, we’re all like that, thank
you so much.” John Warner was there. Then she and Halston got up off the
dais to make a trip to the bathroom and one of the ladies at Bob’s table
wondered, “Why are they both going to the bathroom?” And another lady
said, “Maybe she ripped her dress and Halston’s going to sew it for her.”
Cabbed downtown because we had to meet Bella Abzug at the office to
photograph her for the cover of Rolling Stone ($4.25).
Bella was there with her daughter, (laughs) another dyke. Oh I’m
kidding, but you know what I mean—a chip off the same block. I took
pictures of Bella smelling a rose. Jann Wenner came down.
Cabbed to La Petite Ferme, a little restaurant in the Village where
George Mason was having a dinner for me. Catherine and her brother
Valentine were waiting for us out in the rain. All the boys in the family are
raving beauties, but the girls are like Catherine—just cute.
Then I talked everybody into going up to Studio 54 for the party for
Beatlemania. Aerosmith was there, and Cyrinda Foxe from Bad who used
to live with David Johansen but now she lives with one of Aerosmith. She
said that a picture of me with a Campbell’s Soup Can was in the light show
of Beatlemania.
Saturday, June 11, 1977
Most of the office went to Montauk. I’m going to try to arrange for a Toyota
for Mr. Winters, so Vincent is happy that he can tell him the good news.
Mrs. Winters is trying to get him to move down to Florida, and Vincent is
scared we’ll lose him.
Looks like the place won’t be rented until maybe August if Bianca wants
it. People don’t like it that all the rocks make swimming difficult, and that
Montauk is so far away. It’s not for sissies.
Thursday, June 16, 1977
I waited for Fred to pick me up to go over to Sloan-Kettering to see Dr.
Stone to go under the knife for a biopsy. No, Dr. Strong. I got local
anesthesia. They did it for half an hour, and then they said to go to work.
I’m still worried, they don’t know what it is. You get up your nerve to go
for a test—you pop the question—and then pretty soon it can be all over,
they give you the answer and you pop off. So I’ll let My Dear Diary know
soon if the days are numbered.
Went to the office ($4) with a bandage on my neck. Bob was
interviewing Barbara Allen, the next Interview cover girl, on Men, Women,
and Love. Tom Beard [a member of Carter’s inaugural committee] brought
a really interesting guy called Joel McCleary, who’s the treasurer of the
Democratic National Committee, and he’s around thirty-five. He was the
national finance chairman of the Carter campaign. He’s trying to get the
Dalai Lama back into this country. He said a lot of Tibetan monks work in a
prophylactic company in Paterson, New Jersey, that they take the bus and
go make prophylactics. And Barbara Allen said, “You know, that’s true, a
lot of prophylactics do say ‘Made in New Jersey.’ “
Went over to visit Victor at his new loft, which just has a bed in the
middle with big jars of different kinds of Vaseline around it—he’s so much
like Ondine.
Saturday, June 18, 1977
Victor said that it was a good day to go around looking for ideas, so we
went down to the Village. But it was like Suddenly, Last Summer—I was his
prop to go cruising, the boys would come over to talk to me and Victor
would get them. We sat at the Riviera Lounge for four hours having coffees
and teas ($7).
Went home, called Julia Scorsese at the Sherry Netherland—she’d called
me—and she said to hold on and then she was gone for ten minutes. Then
she came back on and said to hold on some more and was gone for another
ten minutes. Then Liza Minnelli got on the phone and said, “This is Liza,
let me have your number and she’ll call you right back.” And then Julia
called and said to come over for dinner. I said I was with Catherine and her
brother that evening and she said to bring them.
Cabbed to Sherry ($2). As we were going in, a guy with a beard was
getting into the elevator. Mr. and Mrs. Scorsese, Martin’s parents, were
there. They’re taller than he is, which is unusual, because kids are usually
taller than their parents. There were a couple of agents. His parents live
downtown right below Ballato’s. There was a nurse with a beautiful baby. It
was a nurse that Julia had just hired, and she’d gotten lost in the airport so
Julia was worried that she wasn’t a good one. There was a Negro girl with a
baby, too, and the guy with the beard turned out to be Bobby De Niro and
this Negro girl was his wife, Diahnne Abbott.
Marty’s skinny now, he’s been on a diet. Jack Haley was running
around. Liza was wearing the dress Halston made out of fabric based on my
Flower paintings. Marty came out in a white outfit and then changed into a
black outfit. Everyone went downstairs to eat. Roger Moore was with them,
and a girl from U.A. who was doing publicity, she was kissing Roger.
Roger Moore was wonderful and charming. He showed us what he
called his three expressions: “worried,” “eyebrow up,” and “eyebrow
down.” He’s been married three times, he’s married to an Italian woman
now.
Bobby De Niro came in after dinner with an agent with funny glasses,
didn’t say much. Marty’s parents were there really late.
Everybody got really really drunk. They were wanting me to make a
toast, and I was so drunk I actually stood up and said something and it came
out right I guess because everybody kept saying how moving it was, but I
was so drunk I can’t remember what I said. Liza kept saying, “I’ll tell this
to my grandchildren—and I’ve forgotten everything else!”
It was the best party. I stole a copy of the record album of New York,
New York because Valentine wanted it, and Roger Moore had written
backwards on it, and then I felt bad because they saw me do it. I was
popping painkillers because of the neck operation from last week, the
biopsy. I haven’t found out yet. When we left the Sherry it was dawn
outside, six o’clock (cab $3.50).
Sunday, June 19, 1977
Victor and I went down to have drinks at Windows on the World (cab $5).
Drank and talked and looked out the window ($180). It was beautiful. Then
we walked around the Village. In the old days you could go over there on a
Sunday and nobody would be around, but now it’s gay gay gay as far as the
eye can see—dykes and leather bars with the names right out there in broad
daylight—the Ramrod-type places. These leather guys, they get dressed up
in leather and go to those bars and it’s all show business—they tie them up
and that takes an hour. They say a few dirty words and that takes another
hour. They take out a whip and that takes another hour—it’s a performance.
And then every once in a while you get a nut who takes it seriously and
does it for real and it throws it all off. But it’s just show business with most
of them. Dropped Victor off ($5), stayed home and watched TV. Thought
about the whole Scorsese scene. They’re riding high, they’re really riding
high.
Monday, June 20, 1977
I called the doctor and he said to come by at 12:00. I was late because I was
nervous. It was good news, it wasn’t what they thought it might be. But
now my neck is swollen and it hurts, I guess I shouldn’t have had it done.
Right after the doctor’s office I went to church to thank God.
Then I went to Tony the florist to send flowers to Liza and Julia for the
fun time on Saturday. I wanted to buy this one tree that looked beautiful,
and at first they said they wouldn’t sell it to me because it would only live
one more day, but I said that was all it had to do—I knew Julia and Liza
wouldn’t be in town long.
Cabbed downtown and then walked to office ($3.50). Julia Scorsese
called to say thanks for the wonderful tree, she said it was their most
memorable evening, too. She invited me to go up to their room after the
New York, New York screening.
Picked Catherine up and her brother, and the three of us went to the
Ziegfeld ($2.75). Sat up front. Catherine and Valentine thought the movie
was boring, but I liked it, thought it was one of Liza’s best movies. Bobby
De Niro’s wife is in it. She sang a song and looked beautiful, but it didn’t
belong in the movie, had nothing to do with it.
Went to the Sherry and the party was jammed. Every time we wanted to
leave, Julia said to stay. She was saying things like, “Please be Martin’s best
boyfriend because he doesn’t have friends.” Somewhere in his New York
days Martin must have gotten something into his head about me, because it
seems to mean something big to have me there and be together, it’s like it
symbolizes something, but I can’t figure out exactly what yet.
We’d told a friend of Valentine’s to meet us at the party but he never
showed up, so we took a cab to the Stanhope to find him ($2.50). Room 15-
something. We knocked on the door and he said, “I’ll be there in a minute.”
This went on for a while. The room is 2’ X 2’‘. Valentine was getting so
nervous he was beating his head. We decided to leave. The friend never
made it to the door (cab $3, dropoffs).
Tuesday, June 21, 1977
Robert Hayes came in saying that he thought Diahnne Abbott should be the
cover girl, and we called and asked her. She said that she was thrilled, but
she’d need “a day to think about it,” so I guess she thinks Bobby might give
her a hard time.
Later that night I went to the premiere of New York, New York and
seeing it the second time I fell asleep around ten times. Victor was taking
coke in the seat next to me, though, so that woke me up at the end—a little
of it drifted over. Walked over to the Rainbow Room.
There was a black guy at the door of the Rainbow Room who didn’t
know me and wouldn’t let me in and then another guy came to the door and
it turned out to be this guy who always tells me that he wants his lobster pot
back. He came to my house with a bunch of people once and says he
brought a lobster pot that he cooked in and then he says it’s still at my
house and I don’t ever know what he’s talking about. I go crazy every time
this guy starts up because it’s always the same routine! If he sees me in
thirty years it will still be: “Give me back my lobster pot.” So he came out
and said, “Oh, come right in, Mr. Warhol,” and at first I didn’t recognize
him and as soon as we got in the door he turned on me and said, “Where’s
my lobster pot!” and I thought, Oh this just can’t be happening to me again.
Oh no, oh no no no no no no.... Then the guy had to go back to the door and
we got away.
We didn’t go into the main room because I didn’t know what happened
to it, I didn’t see it. We went into the side room and then Julia Scorsese
came over and said, “Hold on to me, grab me, talk to me,” like come
here/go there/turn around/don’t leave me—she’s just like Susan Tyrrell and
Sally Kirkland, sort of that type.
Then she said, “Don’t look now, there’s Martin’s first wife, and I just get
crazy when she’s around.” And the girl was very beautiful. I didn’t know
that Martin had been married before, I was surprised because he’s so
Catholic and always has the priest around and everything. The girl said,
“You don’t remember me, but I met you when I was the head of the Erotica
Gallery.” Then we left her and I introduced Julia to Earl Wilson.
I noticed that in the movie were lots of the people who actually work for
Marty. Like the woman in the car who has the fight with Bobby and Liza is
the wife of the agent. That’s why it’s good—the parts were written for the
people.
Julia asked me to sit at the main table with her and Marty, but there was
a big crowd and noise so I sort of pretended I didn’t hear that because I
wanted to slip away—it wasn’t my night, it was their night.
Victor left and I was so worried about him, he was strange, and seemed
bored, and for the first time since I’ve known him he seemed real. Like he
was very tired and a normal person and wanted to go home. And he did.
Went over to Studio 54. The band struck up “New York, New York” and
they carried Liza in. Halston did photos with her. Then a little later they
played “New York, New York” and Martin walked in, and I think maybe
they carried Liza in again or picked her up again, but I was leaving.
Dropped Valentine ($3). It was 3:00.
Thursday, June 23, 1977
Went to the dentist. Asked Dr. Lyons not to take X-rays and he got mad. He
said that I hadn’t had one in ten years.
Then went down to the ninth floor to see Dr. Domonkos the skin doctor.
Kitty Carlisle Hart was coming out in a sort of disguise and I asked the
doctor why she was there and he said he was sending her somewhere else,
so I don’t know what that meant. Had a pimple squeezed. He told me to
come back next week.
Cabbed to Sloan-Kettering ($2.50) and the waiting room there freaked
me out. People with noses cut off. It was so shocking. Dr. Strong took the
stitches on my neck out.
Talked to Jamie Wyeth who said we could go late to the president’s
fund-raising thing at the Waldorf. When we got there, there were picketers
outside and it was like a bad movie. If you saw it in a movie you wouldn’t
believe it. They had sections for gay protest and sections for abortion. And
they had a garbage can with abortions in it.
We were up in the balcony. When the president came in he went around
and shook every single person’s hand in the whole place and that took a few
hours. Ann Landers was kind of nutty-acting. She told me that her daughter
had a lot of Warhols and she wishes she’d gotten on the bandwagon early,
too. The president made speeches and he had a good writer because the
jokes were all good.
“I want my vice-president to be an active one, so if any of you have
questions on”—he gave a list—“abortion, gay rights, downtown parking,
Northern Ireland, the Concorde … just write him letters and he’ll be happy
to clear it up.”
Is that the first time a president has ever said the word “gay"? It may be
—because of Anita Bryant.
Andrew Young told me he’d seen me the day before walking along Park
Avenue.
Then we left and went down to see Bryan Ferry at the Bottom Line.
Then everyone went to Hurrah’s for the party for Bryan Ferry that Jerry
Hall was having. Ronnie was there with a date, and Gigi was there with a
date, and that was a drama. Ronnie said later that Gigi threw a drink in his
face and he swears he hadn’t said or done anything to her, but that then he
retaliated by ripping the front of her dress.
Friday, June 24, 1977
Ronnie was drinking heavily at the office all day because he’d been woken
up by Gigi at the door with two policemen and a restraining order,
something like that. So since he was drinking, he was bossing me around,
giving me art ideas, which was good.
Nobody was around the office to go interview Diahnne Abbott except
Catherine Guinness, so I went over with her. It wasn’t a good interview, I
felt bad about it. It degenerated into me interviewing her little girl of around
nine from before she married De Niro, and I take the blame for the bad
interview because she’s a friend of Nelson Lyon’s so she must be
intelligent, and I just didn’t do a good interview. Dropped Catherine ($4).
Gave Jed $20 for car expenses and he drove us to Montauk. We’re now
trying now to rent the place to François de Menil or Earl McGrath.
Sunday, June 26, 1977—Montauk—New York
Sunny. Mr. Winters was thrilled all weekend because we told him he was
going to get a new Jeep.
Earl and I discussed the cover of the Rolling Stones album that I’m
doing. He wanted me to put some writing on it. I was down by the beach,
Vincent was surfing, and there was a guy walking his big dog. I ignored
him for a while, and then realized it was Dick Cavett. We talked a while and
he was fishing for an invitation so I invited him over for lunch. Peter Beard
came over with Margrit Rammè, who was kissing Peter in front of Barbara
Allen, his old girlfriend, but the two girls got along okay.
Dick Cavett told a Polish joke—put dots on his hands and then put his
hand by his ear— “What’re you doing?” “Listening to the Ink Spots.” And
then Margrit told one about the Polish police lineup where the guy rapist
steps out of the line and says, “That’s the girl!”
Barbara was upset because Jack Nicholson gave the part she
“auditioned” for to an unknown girl who did some New York theater things.
I left early with François. He’s a good fast driver—got us from Montauk
to East Hampton in ten minutes. Jann Wenner had John Belushi at his place.
Jann gave us a tour of the house. If he’d rented Montauk, he could have had
something great, but I guess he and his wife Jane just wanted something
“adorable.” I was thinking about an idea all weekend that I got from the Liz
and Dick book about doing a love affair between two parallel streets that
can never meet. Dylan Thomas had once told Richard Burton he wanted to
do that, but then he died. It would be a good thing for me to do, a good art
idea.
Philip Niarchos kept calling Barbara from his car all weekend from
London. He went to a big ball there, all the rich kids were at it.
Monday, June 27, 1977
Looked through the new issue of Interview. Barbara Allen really hates her
cover, she says it makes her look fat. Jann Wenner sent the paintings of
Mick back, they must have been too much money for him. Catherine was
putting Interview down and we had a fight when I told her she was lazy.
Nenna Eberstadt at the office sewed up Valentine’s pants, but then last night
they split again, so she didn’t do a good job. I made a mistake of
mentioning a lisp Valentine has and he got upset because he said he went to
therapy for four years to get rid of it and thought he had.
Tuesday, June 28, 1977
Went down to the office where Interview was having a lunch for the
Schenley’s liquor people. I was in and out of the lunch because I was
painting with the sponge mop in the back. I haven’t peed on any canvases
this week. This is for the Piss paintings. I told Ronnie not to pee when he
gets up in the morning—to try to hold it until he gets to the office, because
he takes lots of vitamin B so the canvas turns a really pretty color when it’s
his piss. Answered a few phone calls myself. A couple of cute kids from
Sweden came by. Sent Ronnie for photo supplies ($5.95).
Cabbed to “21” ($5.50). Vincent picked me up. It had just started to rain.
Dinner was with Peter Beard and his friend Harry Horn from Kenya. People
were streaming upstairs for a dinner that Diane Von Furstenberg was giving
for Egon’s birthday. I was surprised when I saw Diane’s mother—she didn’t
look Jewish, she was small and blonde. Then Mick in a lime suit came in
with Jerry Hall. I thought things were fishy with Mick and Jerry and then
the plot started to thicken. Mick was so out of it that I could tell the waiters
were scared he’d pass out. His head was so far back and he was singing to
himself. The top part of his body was like jelly and the bottom half was
tapping 3,000 taps a minute. He was putting his sunglasses on and off. Mick
started going after Vincent, but it was just a ruse, because I found out later
from Fred he’s really passionately in love with Jerry, and it looks like
there’s trouble for Bianca. Jerry was saying, “I really have to go,” and when
Peter was going to go with her to get a cab she said, “Oh, that’s all right,
Mick will drop me off.”
Then we went next door for a continuing party for Egon, this one given
at New York/New York by Diane de Beauvau. Franco Rossellini was there
with a big black and blue nose, and you couldn’t see anything but that, but I
wanted to be discreet in case somebody had hit him, so I ignored it until
Franco said finally, “By the way, have you noticed my nose? My little dog
bit me.” He has a dachshund, so I got nervous. He took it to a funeral and
the dachshund, Felix, got upset and bit his nose and wouldn’t let go.
Wednesday, June 29, 1977
Worked. Victor came by after his trip to Fire Island. He had some come
samples with him and I told him to start coming on the sheets and bring
them in and we’d have an exhibit together in Victor’s loft—his Come
paintings and my Piss.
Thursday, June 30, 1977
George Mason called and invited me to dinner on Atlantic Avenue in
Brooklyn. Stan Rumbough was going to the dinner, too, and that got me
excited, he’s the young rich Post Toasties son of Dina Merrill. Dina is in A
Wedding, the Robert Altman movie that they’re filming in Chicago. It just
has a little bit of a storyline. Altman’s doing all the things we tried to do in
the late sixties and early seventies.
George Mason picked me up. Stan Rumbough is very big, about 6’3",
and he’s handsome, but he talks like a fairy. I’ve seen him a few times with
cheap, sort of Oriental-looking girls. He’s got a high, nelly voice, but I
guess he likes beautiful girls—he was disappointed that Candy Bergen
cancelled out, he said he’d gone swimming with her when he was seven
years old and wanted to see her again.
It was an Armenian-Turkish-African-Arabian-type restaurant. Mashed
chickpeas, mashed eggplant, three guys playing music. George had his
model girlfriend Maret from Finland there.
Barbara Allen was there. She still just really hates her Interview cover.
The man with the new model agency came, he brought about five girls and
boys. Valentine was in heaven. The owners came over a lot and took
pictures. A nun came over to me to autograph a bottle but my pen didn’t
work. She said she’d just gotten out of an operation and that seeing me was
the most exciting moment of her life since she won $500 in the church
lottery, (laughs) I mean, if these are high points for a nun …
Stan Rumbough seemed to like Barbara and was saying something that
sounded like “blow job” a lot and blowing into a bottle. Philip Niarchos is
probably not going to marry her, so she should get him worried, or
something like that. She should live with him and get more things before he
drops her.
Stan says he’s a “photographer.” These rich kids, it’s so funny to hear
them sit there and say, “I have a job, oh yes, doing pictures for a catalogue,
I work for a man who does catalogues, and this is the second time I’ve been
to Brooklyn—the first was yesterday, I came here to pick up some wax fruit
to shoot….” I asked him if he wanted to do pictures for Interview. I mean,
Dina interviewed herself just to get Stan’s picture of her published. And he
said, “I’m in a busy time now, what with the catalogue work….”
Then on to Earl McGrath’s party for the Star Wars people—Mark
Hamill, Harrison Ford, Carrie Fisher, and another girl, but by the time I got
to 57th and Seventh they were gone (cab $8).
MacKenzie Phillips asked Vincent, “Got any blow?” Jann Wenner was
there and I introduced him to Stan Rumbough, but Stan is so stupid-
sounding and I forgot to clue Jann who he was, so Jann probably thought he
was just some kid who took pictures of waxed fruit, because that’s all he
was talking about again.
Good food. Fran Lebowitz and Marc Balet were there, they may have
come with Jerry Hall and Bryan Ferry. Jerry seemed to be back with him.
Earl showed a videotape of the Sex Pistols.
Barbara and Stan and I left together, and when I left them they were still
together.
Friday, July 1,1977
Suzie Frankfurt and Jed left early for Montauk in order to spruce it up for
the prospective renters.
Victor invited me over to Halston’s house for dinner. Halston had gone
to Joe Eula’s for the weekend in upstate New York, and he lets Victor use
his house on 63rd Street while he’s away but he never tells him when he’s
coming back, just to keep Victor on his toes. So Victor invited lots of people
for dinner with me. One of them was Peter Keating, a top male model. His
hair is receding, but he didn’t start to get popular until it started to recede,
he thinks it’s because this way he doesn’t “pose a threat” to men.
Victor made a chicken. The house was freezing and I was the only one
cold because everyone else was taking coke. Halston has a freezer stacked
full of vodka, so it’s like drinking liquid oil. I had about four small glasses.
Also there were a couple of John Waters people from Baltimore. The one
guy who looked like a heavier John Waters said that he was Divine’s
roommate. I asked if he and Divine were lovers and he said, “Well, after all
these years, you really fall in love with the mind….” Victor said he’d made
it with someone in a van in front of Halston’s, because they weren’t sure
when Halston was coming back.
Saturday, July 2, 1977
Victor called and said he wanted to take me to dinner in the Village. I
picked him up (cab $4). We went into porno magazine stores for research
materials for the “landscapes” ($36) and another one where the guy
wouldn’t give us a receipt ($17). Bought a “fairy shirt” that has my name on
it. It’s just a list of names of people who’re gay all over it like Thoreau,
Alexander the Great, Halston, me—but they have Richard Avedon on it.
And there was somebody else on it who I’ve never heard was queer, either,
but I forget who. Cruised the whole area. The Village was so packed with
everybody who couldn’t afford Fire Island. Victor had a “big black number”
coming over to his house that he wanted me to photograph as a
“landscape,” so we cabbed back ($3.60). Then the big black number called
and said he wouldn’t be there for hours, so Victor and I cabbed to Studio 54
($3). It was filled with beautiful people.
Went back to Halston’s, Halston wasn’t home, waited for the
“landscape.” Took pictures when he got there until I ran out of film. When I
opened the door it was bright daylight. I was surprised. Home at 7:00.
Sunday, July 3, 1977
The kids called from Montauk, everybody was out there. Jan Cushing,
Jackie Rogers, François de Menil and Jennifer Jakobson, Barbara Allen.
Mick had moved over from Peter Beard’s and spent time in one of the
bedrooms with Barbara.
Walked over to Victor’s-at-Halston’s. I ran into Stevie of Studio 54 on
the street. Victor was trying to call his big black number again. Halston
came in just as I was leaving, and that was awkward, really awkward.
Victor is my new Ondine, he even uses a TWA flight bag like Ondine
used to. But it’s getting kind of too heavy, seeing him so much. He should
get his art career going, but he thinks he doesn’t have to have sex with
somebody to get ahead. I told him, “You’ve got to fuck your way to the
top.” Then I told him the Barbara Rose/Frank Stella Story.
Some blacks recognized me a few times this weekend, and I’m trying to
figure out what they recognize so I can somehow sell it to them, whatever it
is.
Tuesday, July 5, 1977
Rupert came by. He was wearing a lady’s jumpsuit. Ronnie had told me that
Rupert wasn’t gay, that he lived with a girl, so I teased him and said, “What
are you wearing that for? Are you a fairy?” and we all fell over when he
said, “Yes, I am.” Ronnie’s eyes popped out. Suddenly it all started to make
sense—the blond hair poofed up, the walk, the women’s clothes—he was
gay!
Victor called. He said that Halston threw him out, accused him of
stealing the coke. Victor says Halston keeps most of the coke in the safe but
he doesn’t know that Victor can open the safe. He also detected that Victor
had had a gang bang because there were greasy handprints on the walls and
come on the Ultrasuede.
Wednesday, July 6, 1977
Victor came by the office to loaf. Halston took back the key to his house
because of the gang bang. Or maybe it was because he caught me there.
We’ll see if he’s mad if he starts sending the paintings back.
Cab ($4) to Elaine’s for dinner with Sharon McCluskey Hammond, and
her favorite cousin who she just met for the first time a week ago, Robin
Lehman. My ears perked up, because he’s the son of the guy that left the
Lehman wing to the Metropolitan Museum.
Steve Aronson said he wanted to look at the menu but Sharon told him,
“If you ask for the menu, Elaine charges twice as much.” Steve flashed a
wad of money and said, “I can afford to hear the menu. There isn’t a menu
in the world I can’t afford to hear.” Sharon said, “Okay, Steven, have it
your way. Waiter? The menu.” Later, when Steve and Catherine were
leaving, Steve threw $40 on the table. Valentine said oh no, no, that that was
too much for two people and that we shouldn’t take it. Then the bill came
and it was $148! I hadn’t even had anything to eat. Robin had a steak.
Sharon had spaghetti. Steve had spaghetti. And nobody even drank.
Thursday, July 7, 1977
Bob and I cabbed to the Pierre Hotel for the lunch in honor of the empress
of Iran. There were demonstrators out front and it was scary, they wore
masks, but they were Iranians, you could tell, because their hands were
dark. We were special, so we went to shake hands with the empress— the,
you know, queen. Governor Carey and Mayor Beame were in the receiving
line, and Zahedi.
The queen was reading a prepared speech and it was going along okay,
and then a woman in a green dress in the press section stood up and
screamed, “Lies, lies, you liar!” and they dragged her out. The queen kept
on reading her prepared statements and then afterwards apologized to
everyone for the noise and demonstrations that were going on because of
her. She said that women’s rights in Iran may not seem so much to
Americans, but in Iran it was big steps.
Cabbed to meet Ronnie ($2.50) and look at uncut stones for my
Diamond paintings. Then cabbed down to the office ($3).
Cabbed up to the Iranian embassy ($2.50). There were no demonstrators
out in front. Inside I saw Otto Preminger again and it was the second or
third time in a few days, so he asked me what we were going to do
tomorrow. I posed for pictures with the queen in front of my portrait of her.
She said she was jealous of Hoveyda because he had eight Warhols and she
only had four. The queen is taller than me.
Cab to Marina Schiano’s for dinner ($3). Françoise de la Renta was
there, she put the Shah down saying he was greedy and awful but she said
she liked the queen. She said he had twenty-five mistresses an hour. Suzie
Frankfurt was there. Bob was in the bedroom where there was coke.
Giorgio Sant’Angelo came in and then Suzie and I were sitting right there
and Giorgio says to Bob, “Who is this Suzie Frankfurt?” This is that thing
that people on drugs do. It’s just like they do in Hollywood when they don’t
like somebody—they talk about them as if they weren’t there. In a way it’s
great—if it could only happen more. Marina and Giorgio are the ones who
really do it a lot. I said, “Suzie, they’re talking about you!” Bob said to
Giorgio, “She’s a good friend of Andy’s, it’s all right.” “But who is she?”
Giorgio said. “She’s very rich,” Bob said. This is all with us sitting right
there, with Giorgio and Bob acting as if we couldn’t hear. Finally I said,
“Oh come on, Bob. You’re talking about people in front of them.”
Dropped Suzie ($2.70).
Barbara Allen told Bob that Mick is very unhappy, he says it’s over with
Bianca, that he has no feelings for her. He thinks she uses him and he
doesn’t want to go to St. Tropez where she is. Barbara says she just thinks
of Mick as a friend, the way she thinks of Fred and Bob, and that she has
sex with him only because he’s lonely now.
Friday, July 8, 1977
By the way, Valerie has been seen hanging around the Village and last week
when I was cruising there with Victor, I was scared I’d run into her and that
would be a really weird thing. What would happen? Would she want to
shoot me again? Would she try to be friendly? [see Introduction, Valerie
Solanis is the woman who shot and nearly killed Andy in 1968.]
Went to Nippon with Marina Schiano, and Franco Rossellini was there.
Franco was saying that he doesn’t know how the story about Imelda being
“married” to Cristina Ford got all over the world—“because I only told one
person and it wasn’t my story anyway.” But he did tell everybody in the
world—it was his joke story-of-the-week once. So now I think Imelda and
Cristina are mad at him.
They dropped me off, and it seemed like they wanted me to invite them
in, but I didn’t.
Sunday, July 10, 1977
Was going to go down to work but the phone rang and it was Julia Scorsese.
She was with a girlfriend, a writer who’s working on a series. Julia said
they were going to meet Barbara Feldon at Serendipity, so went to the
Sherry to pick them up.
Julia was driving me crazy, sometimes when I’d catch her eye she
looked just like Valerie Solanis, and then she also acts like Viva. She got it
in her head that I “saved” her the night of New York New York. She said that
she wasn’t next to Martin at the table and I went over and sat her down
there and that that squelched rumors that her husband was having an affair
with Liza Minnelli so the papers didn’t get it. She went on about that a lot
and she was walking sort of drunkenly on blue high heels and her pupils
were dilated.
When we got to Serendipity, Barbara Feldon was there. Julia started
doing what I hate more than anything, patting my head all the time. She
drove me crazy. And she kept trying to fix me up with her girlfriend who
was tall and kind of pretty, and it was them saying, “You’re so wonderful
wonderful wonderful” to me for hours, and I didn’t know what to do. Since
I told her they didn’t have liquor, she brought champagne. I don’t
understand these girls, they talk and say things and I don’t know what
they’re doing.
Barbara left and we cabbed to Elaine’s. We ordered, and it was more
“Aren’t you wonderful"s. Julia said she wanted to set up a date for me to
meet the writer of Annie, she said it would be nice for me to meet some real
men, and I didn’t know what that meant, if she was saying “real men” and
the real men meant fairies, or what she was talking about. Julia told me how
they do things on Marty’s movies—they rehearse the people, do videotapes,
then Julia picks out the best things and they have the people redo them that
way on camera later during the shooting. She said they change the plot and
twist it during the shooting. Like in the original story of New York, New
York, Bobby De Niro goes into the record business.
She said that Marty has coke problems and he got blood poisoning and
now he takes medicine to clean himself out. He’s cutting three movies now.
She said she wrote a lot of Taxi Driver. I started saying people act like it’s
the directors and the producers and the writers who make a movie when it’s
actually the stars, and she took offense saying her husband had created
Bobby De Niro and Harvey Keitel and some other people. But I said they
were new faces and people always want to see new faces. Marty is now in
Chicago doing a musical called Shine It On with Liza.
She said that she gave Robert Altman the idea to film A Wedding in
Chicago, to take it out of L.A. and give it a different atmosphere. The
producers gave her three days off, she said, so I took that to mean she must
have been driving them crazy. Julia was getting a little too drunk. She
dumped her pocketbook on the table and all the credit cards spilled out. She
went to the bathroom and I put them back in (dinner $70).
Monday, July 11, 1977
Forgot to say that on Friday Paulette Goddard called. She sounded a little
drunk, cranky. She’s very mad at Valerian Rybar who’s decorating her
apartment in the Ritz Towers—he made it all pink and blue and even
though she approved those colors she said she doesn’t know how she could
have.
Wednesday, July 13, 1977
Cabbed up to Rockefeller Plaza to the Warner Communications offices to
see Pelé, the soccer player who was being photographed for Interview. He
was adorable, he remembered meeting me at Regine’s once. We were on the
thirtieth floor. He’s sort of funny-looking, but then when he smiles he looks
beautiful. He has his own office up there, and they’re making Pelé T-shirts
and hats and cartoons.
Mark Ginsburg had called and said the interview with Irene Worth was
on for that night, and I said I’d meet him at the Vivian Beaumont where her
play The Cherry Orchard was. We were going to see it first.
Irene’s voice was good, and that’s all that really matters—everything she
says sounds like real acting. The lights went down and I thought it was the
end of the act, but it wasn’t. It was the Blackout of ‘77. They kept acting on
stage in the dark, and the girl who played the daughter announced, “Isn’t
this fun? Let’s keep going!” A guy came on stage and said that anybody
who wanted to leave would be shown the way out, and that they’d just keep
going with the play, they had guys on stage holding candles.
So everybody was a real trouper, and this was the moment these actors
had been waiting all their lives for—to make the show go on.
Then after the play, as Mark and I were walking backstage to see Irene, a
man said, “This is the most thrilling thing that’s happened to me, passing
Andy Warhol in the dark.” Irene changed and put on bluejeans and turned
out to look young. She served champagne. I had enough tape for three or
four hours’ taping. A Lincoln Center guy was saying, “Stay in the crowds,
they’re mugging people all over” (cab $4, big tip).
For some reason it was so simple to get a cab, we just walked out and
got in one and went with a friend of Irene’s who I also know, Rudy, to his
apartment on 67th and Lexington, right on the second floor. He had candles
all over because he always eats with candles. He made omelettes on his gas
range, it was all so easy. They were delicious. Did the interview with Irene.
The phones were sort of working—you had to wait for a dial tone, but
then it was okay.
Thursday, July 14, 1977
My power on 66th Street went on about an hour ago [Friday, 8:00A.M.] On
TV the reporters showed the looting, they had TV crews right there, filming
the looters, and the lights from the TV enabled them to see better to steal
more. It was like the TV people asked them where they were going to steal
next so they could set up. On TV they’re all chained together and they’re all
black and Puerto Rican. It looks like Roots.
Maxime de la Falaise called the Factory to see if there was electricity
there. She’s been moving down to her loft on 19th Street from the Upper
West Side all week. She tried to save money by getting hippie movers, and
it’s taken a week instead of a day. The hippies carry things out leisurely and
look at chairs and ask each other, “How old do you think this is? Eighteenth
century?” Professional movers just crate up dead bodies, if that’s what you
have in your apartment, they don’t miss a beat.
Had dinner with Sharon Hammond and Robin Lehman and afterwards
we walked down Eighth Avenue through the drag queens and transvestites
and whores over to Studio 54. Steve Rubell was thrilled to see us and let all
ten of us in free. He reminded me that I’d asked him to marry me a few
weeks ago, and I couldn’t believe he would remember something casual and
offhand like that. I said it once and didn’t even think he heard me. I mean,
he’s a young kid doing well, being successful—I’m so tired of working I
propose all the time to people who’re doing well. Why would he remember
that as if it was serious?
Saturday, July 16, 1977
Son of Sam is still out on the loose, and that’s an old-style crime—notes to
the police, an M.O., killer on the loose, all that. People seem sort of happy
to see a pattern. Son of Sam is nostalgia, almost. Goes after long brown-
haired girls.
Up very early. Had lunch at the office for Victor and a kid he knows
from NBC, Andy Wright, and Victor’s new beautiful girlfriend who gives
him coke, from Greenwich, Connecticut, Nancy something, who models.
He’s been fucking her to get the coke.
Monday, July 18, 1977
I’m reading the Evelyn Keyes book Scarlett O’Hara’s Younger Sister, and
she describes everything in detail in her sex life, it’s great, sex with King
Vidor and with John Huston—how he put it in and everything. And she says
that Paulette Goddard was her idol, that she copied everything about her,
her hair, her voice.
Called Paulette and told her about the book, how much Evelyn loved
her. She said, “Oh yeah, she loved me so much she stole all my boyfriends,
and when she stole my last boyfriend, I dropped her.”
Cabbed up to Suzie’s ($2.35). Sandra Payson who’s married to George
Weidenfeld was there and as I sat talking to her, a cockroach was running
on her. I didn’t know if I should say something or not. But then maybe she
knew because she stood up and said, “Shall we get moving?” And that
knocked it off. What would Emily Post do?
I decided to really really hustle so I took Lady Weidenfeld home. We
walked a little, and then she was overheated and we cabbed to 25 Sutton
Place ($2.50). We talked about Diana Vreeland’s nose. She popped the
question about how much a portrait is and I said, “Oh, I can’t talk money,
talk to Fred.” That effect.
On my way home, a cab stopped and I really wanted one, but since it
had stopped for me I was suspicious to get in and didn’t. Went to a
magazine store ($4).
Tuesday, July 19, 1977
Stanley Siegel had looters as guests on his TV show and also Adela Holzer
to defend herself against the fraud charges. She said that the investors had
started to worship her and so they expected to make a fortune and when
they didn’t right away they got mad. She kept correcting Stanley that she’d
been “booked, not arrested.”
All day was preparing for the Interview advertising party at 5:00. People
started coming around then and by 6:00 it was jammed. Everybody likes
Gael Malkenson, who just started working full-time for us now that she
graduated from college—she’s aggressive and everybody thinks she should
really be the one selling ads.
Ruth Kligman came by and kissed me smack on the lips and told me she
was off Jack Nicholson for her Jackson Pollock story, and the new he-man
screen-man of her dreams is Bobby De Niro, he’s all she could think about.
Wednesday, July 20, 1977
Tom Seaver came down to pose for an Athletes portrait. Richard Weisman
came, too, in a limo that parked downstairs. Tom Seaver was adorable.
Athletes really do have the fat in the right places and they’re young in the
right places. The person taking the photographs was Mr. Johnson, a nice
man who did the story on Jamie Wyeth and me once. He wanted Tom to
wear a Mets hat, so they went out and bought one, and then he wanted Tom
to do a Cincinnati-uniform with-a-Mets-hat picture, half and half, but he
refused. Tom’s wife Nancy was calling on the phone. He hates the Mets
now. He’d just bought a new house in Connecticut and everything when
they traded him.
I haven’t been feeling well for the past two weeks, I think it’s the pimple
medicine. I’m going to the pimple doctor again early in the morning.
Thursday, July 21, 1977
After the pimple doctor I went to the office. Lunch for Christopher Wilding
and his stepsister, the adopted Liz Taylor-Richard Burton girl, she was
pretty but not a raving beauty, about sixteen, shy. Firooz Zahedi was there,
and the Blondie girl was being interviewed and photographed by Chris
Makos. Her real name is Debbie Harry, she’s been around for a long time,
sort of on the fringes. She knows everybody. If she had a body like
Cyrinda’s she’d be really great, although her body’s okay, like a Sandra
Dee-Tuesday Weld-type body. She’s small.
Allen Midgette came up earlier to show his wares, he’s making leather
clothes, and he really works hard on them. He stayed for lunch. He keeps in
shape dancing. We reminisced about the sixties when I sent him on that
college lecture tour with Paul and Viva to impersonate me and then the
places found out and made me redo the whole tour.
Monday, August 22, 1977
Cabbed to Chembank ($3.40). Walked over to University Place to look for
things to paint.
Then cabbed to Richard Weisman’s with Susan Johnson and Jed ($4.50).
Susan needs a new man—the Billy Copley affair didn’t work out. When we
got there, everyone was already watching the Wimbledon match between
Bjorn Borg and Vitas Gerulaitis. Those last two weren’t there yet, they were
having dinner together. The match went on three hours, and somewhere in
there Vitas came in with a girlfriend but Bjorn had gone home from dinner.
The joke is always that Bjorn sleeps for four hours then plays tennis for
two, and that Vitas plays tennis for two hours then discotheques for four.
Now Vitas has just discovered New York/New York. Susan Johnson was
hurt, all the butch athletes had girls that were tall, slender, blonde, long-
haired. She’s just cute and little and brown-haired.
There was a lot to drink, no cocaine. Everyone teased Gerulaitis that he
was wearing his gold coke-cutter razorblade around his neck in the match.
He’s in training now, he left early and only ate a plum.
Tuesday, August 23, 1977
Dinner to interview Diahnne Abbott was at Quo Vadis. Picked up Catherine.
Bob began asking Diahnne (laughs) in many different ways how it felt to be
colored. “Are you really colored? How do you feel about your skin? Do you
like to dance?” And then he got it down to what did it feel like to be colored
and in bed with Bobby De Niro. Then I think she must have slipped Bob
some coke—he went into the bathroom and came back a zombie.
Diana Vreeland was there for dinner with Alessandro Albrizzi from
Venice, at a table behind us. Then later as we were leaving, I introduced
Diahnne to Diana and Diana said, “I’m madly in love with your husband.”
We went over in Diahnne’s car to Studio 54. Fred and Ahmet Ertegun and
Earl McGrath were there. Earl said he was thrilled that Fred had agreed to
so little money for the billboard I’ll be doing for the Stones.
Diahnne didn’t like the music that was playing, it wasn’t right, she
wanted to leave. Went up to Elaine’s. She played some songs on the
jukebox that she wasn’t able to hear at Studio 54. Bob continued the
questioning on how it felt to be colored.
She told about her waitressing jobs in the Village at the Left or Right
Bank, places like that. Then Bob asked her about politics, and she said she
didn’t think about it, and then Bob brought up Idi Aminl I mean, everything
he said was colored (Elaine’s $50).
Then Diahnne invited us down to her apartment. It was peculiar, it was
like this meant she was really accepting us or something. Barrow Street.
She had clothes all over, she was buying lots and lots of clothes. They’re
looking for a new apartment and I suggested Park Avenue, but she said they
have an image to protect. She served Dom Perignon, showed us baby
pictures. She let the limo go, which was tacky, and we had to cab home. As
we passed the Studio 54 neighborhood, Bob screamed, “Let me out, let me
out” (cab $5).
Tuesday, August 30, 1977
Up early to go to see Dr. Lyons for a teeth-cleaning. Went to Park Avenue to
get a cab downtown and one pulled up and the door opened and it was
lovely Barbara Rose saying, “Let’s share a cab downtown.” The fare on the
meter was already past $3, I noticed. She’s now going with Jerry Leiber, the
Leiber-Stoller guy who wrote “Hound Dog” and so she talked about Elvis,
although I don’t think Leiber went to the funeral in Memphis. She said she
and Leiber are writing or have written a play and they want Al Pacino to
play Elvis. God, I just hate her. She’s so awful (cab total $7).
They’re saying that the article Caroline Kennedy did on the Elvis funeral
for Rolling Stone made fun of the local people, but I can understand that—
Caroline’s really intelligent and the people down there really were dumb.
Elvis never knew there were more interesting people.
When I got to 12th Street I walked around University Place for ideas.
Then over to the office. Sandy Brant was there with Jed going over
decorating schemes for Peter Brant and Joe Allen’s office building in
Greenwich that Philip Johnson designed. Jed’s in the decorating business
now.
Cab to Alkit Camera ($3) on 53rd and Third. The cab driver didn’t even
turn around to look at me but he knew who I was. I asked him how he could
tell. He said that he’d been buying art since he was twenty and just
“stacking it around the house like the Collyer Brothers.” He went to
auctions and places for art bargains, and he was thrilled to have me in the
cab. I got a new camera because I had to take pictures of Chrissie Evert
later in the afternoon. For the Athletes series.
Had Bettina, the famous Chanel model from the fifties, to lunch. She’s
the beautiful one who was in the car with Aly Khan when he died. She’s
here to open an Ungaro store on Madison around the corner from my house.
She was wearing a purple dress.
Chrissie said she and Burt Reynolds were talking about me recently, and
that’s why she wanted to do this. Victor came in and he started dragging out
the Shadow paintings of cocks and assholes that I’ve been doing—the
paintings all the “landscapes” have been posing for—and somebody had to
tell him not to. I gave her a copy of the Burt Reynolds issue of Interview.
Thursday, September 1, 1977
Went to the eye doctor and tried about another fifteen pairs of soft contact
lenses. Finally a pair that was very very thin, the thinnest, felt the best.
Sunday, September 4, 1977—Paris
Got up late and went back to sleep and I still wasn’t ready when Fred was
ready to go at 1:00. Taxi to YSL’s for lunch. Fred had to lie and say that I
was a cripple so that the driver would take us such a short distance. The
driver looked me over and said, “Yes, I can see that” ($2).
Pierre showed us his birthday present to Yves: a sixteenth-century
vermilion lion with ruby eyes. Yves also had on a lion ring. I taped the
entire lunch. They spoke a lot of French so we stared around a lot. After
lunch we went to the garden and the dogs were let out and Pierre played
with them. He told us that he uses a cock ring. Pierre said that they were
putting silicone in cocks now so that they stayed hard all of the time. Yves
said he hoped everyone would do it so he could design new pants.
Tuesday, September 6, 1977—Paris
Went to Castel’s for dinner. As we were going upstairs Fred noticed that Joe
Dallesandro was there so he went down to ask him to come up and join us
but Joe said no and that began to bother Fred. So then Fred began drinking
champagne. Lots of people there—Caroline of Monaco’s fiancé Philippe
Junot, Florence Grinda’s brother, and Pam Sakowitz who’s getting
divorced. Fred kissed her hand. Then Fred had an argument with a waiter
about the fish forks. I asked Fred why he was so upset, if that meant he’d
had an affair with Joe, and he didn’t answer me. We learned more about
Fred with every new champagne bottle. Then he decided to go and make
Joe come up. Joe looked so dirty, his teeth were so dirty, like licorice. He
talked loud, said he drinks a bottle of bourbon a day. He’s making a movie
with Maria Schneider—they’re playing zombies. He put down his girlfriend
Stefania Cassini who left him. Said that he bought her $5,000 necklaces that
she’d hide in the safe and then go run around Rome calling herself a
Communist. Now he’s having affairs with boys and girls—just anybody, he
said. He asked us to join him downstairs because he had a table. We said
that we’d be down. Later he came back and screamed that they were taking
away his table so we should hurry up. He had some rich illustrator paying
for it all. Joe started dancing with two black guys, and Fred was getting
drunker and started dancing with them, too. I got so embarrassed that I left.
Wednesday, September 7, 1977—Paris
Phone rang. It was Paloma for Fred but he wasn’t in his bed. Decided that I
couldn’t worry about him anymore. Paloma had a lunch date with him and
said that she’d call back. About 1:00 he arrived and she called back so we
all got ready to go meet her. Cabbed to Angelina’s ($2). Paloma was
wearing all red YSL. Talked about old romances and old happenings out of
the past. Paloma picked up the check.
Friday, September 9, 1977—Paris
Bob got Liza Minnelli to do an endorsement in the Puerto Rican rum ad
that’ll run in Interview and he’s now working on Jack Nicholson.
Someone called New York—found out that Bella Abzug lost, Cuomo
won.
Monday, September 12, 1977—Paris—Venice
The Air France flight to Venice took two hours and we took a boat taxi to
the Danielli ($20). Checked in and then we went out for lunch at La
Colomba ($25). Went by Autillo Codognato’s jewelry shop. He’s working
on my show here with Doug Christmas. Ran into Nan Kempner. The show
is Friday but the paintings are still in customs in Rome. While we were on
the launch we saw Graham Sutherland signing prints.
Tuesday, September 13, 1977—Venice
We had breakfast and then moved to another hotel where we had a pretty
room with a balcony and I liked it better (tips $10, cab $10). Autillo had
invited us all to lunch at Harry’s Bar. Had chicken with peppers and listened
to Doug and Autillo talk about the customs problems still. They’re going to
call the ambassador in Rome to try to speed things up.
Wednesday, September 14, 1977—Venice
There was a storm in the night but woke up to a beautiful day. We were
supposed to visit Peggy Guggenheim’s collection so we started moving. In
the lobby there was a photographer who began to take pictures of me and
continued all during the trip back across the Laguna. Doug then took us to
II Prisione where my show would be. It’s not a prison, it was a fancy men’s
club, it’s next to the Doge’s Palace. It’s a good space with high ceilings but
not too big. The white board for hanging went all around the wall but Doug
wanted to paint it flesh-colored. The man in charge there took us up to the
roof to show us a big cloth banner that said ANDY WARHOL and the dates
of the show, 16 September-8 October. There was another one in San Marco
Square under the clock and another one on the way towards Accademia. Jed
photographed them.
At Peggy’s we looked around at everything. John Hornsbee, the curator,
asked Peggy if she wanted to receive us and she said no. She’s sick. And we
didn’t really want to see her anyway.
Thursday, September 15, 1977—Venice
At 4:00 I had to go over to the prison to sign some posters in advance.
Some high school art teacher from San Francisco had left a can of
Campbell’s for me to sign for him.
Jed and I went to the paper store to try and find some office gifts. We
picked out some good designs of Venetian handprinted paper ($60). Went
home to rest up. Thomas Ammann arrived from Zurich.
Friday, September 16, 1977—Venice
Jed and I got up and did some sightseeing and some more last-minute office
shopping (gifts $29, $49, $39). We all met for lunch at Cipriani and Doug
didn’t seem at all nervous even though the pictures hadn’t arrived yet. After
lunch I went over to check and they’d finally arrived. The flesh color was a
little off on the walls but it looked all right anyway. They all started to
work. The Italian workers had already started hanging the paintings. Doug’s
assistant, Hilary, told me the workers were surprised when they saw that my
paintings were closeups of naked bodies and I guess they didn’t think that
was good art because they started to make jokes and compare the cocks
with their own and they didn’t do much work. She said that she and Doug
had to do most of the work themselves. If Italians laugh at you and lose
respect, you can’t get work out of them—that was the trouble Paul
Morrissey had in Rome when he was shooting Frankenstein and Dracula—
I guess the crew decided he didn’t know what he was doing, because they’d
just stand around and sort of snicker.
We went back to the hotel to rest. Then went to the show at about 7:30.
After an hour or so we went to Florian’s for a drink and everyone took
photos. Then went to Autillo’s apartment on the second floor of a big
palazzo on the Grand Canal. The big hall was all set with tables for 100
people. Autillo showed us his collection. He had my Flowers and Jackies
and lots of good art.
At dinner I was beginning to feel my chair slip out from under me and
was holding on to the table when a waiter told me I should change chairs.
But I guess he put the bad chair at another table because in a few minutes I
heard a crash and saw a white-haired man getting up from the floor.
After coffee we drifted around a little and looked at the collection some
more. I was getting tired and was ready to go but it was by then pouring
rain. Fred was drunk and he was very quiet. We waited downstairs for the
boat taxis. They didn’t come right away so we decided to walk. We held our
coats tight around us. Fred slipped once but we got him home all right.
Right after I got in bed I felt the entire building move.
Saturday, September 17, 1977—Venice—New
York
I told Jed that there’d been an earthquake the night before and he said it had
just been the wind, but when the floor shifts and everything starts to slide
you know it’s an earthquake. It turned out it was—Autillo said a painting
fell at his house.
Got a speedboat taxi to the airport, zipping over the waves ($25 plus $5
tip). At the airport ran into Johnny Nicholson of the Café Nicholson.
Bought magazines ($10). On the plane I found a good review of Bad—
twenty-five movies opened in Paris this week and Bad was the one getting
all the publicity, they’re saying it’s the first “punk” movie. They’re calling
me the Queen of Punk.
Sunday, September 18, 1977
My opening at the Folk Art Museum is tomorrow night. Everybody who’s
been giving me freebies all over town now expects to be invited to this, but
it’s so embarrassing because the museum isn’t giving me any free tickets,
it’s a $100 benefit. It’s just so horrible, these people let you in free all over
town and you can’t even invite them. I just kept telling them that it isn’t
anything and that it’s going to be boring. Which it is.
Monday, September 19, 1977
Went to see Dr. Poster (cab $2.50) because when I plugged in my contact
lens cleaning machine in Paris it was the wrong voltage and it blew out.
Richard Weisman was coming to the office at 2:30. When he arrived he
said I had to go to Columbus tomorrow to take pictures of Jack Nicklaus.
Richard and Fred had a meeting about the series of sports-star portraits
Richard commissioned, and I wished I’d stayed in the meeting longer
because after I left they decided there would be the show in December of
the ten Athletes portraits we finally settle on to exhibit and I think January
would be much better.
Chris Makos came by and gave me a copy of White Trash, his book of
photos, and it looked good, he did a good job.
Left the office early. Doc Cox said he was picking me up in his Rolls
Royce and I cringed, because I just hate to be seen in that car. But he
arrived in a cab and I was secretly thrilled when he told me the Rolls had
broken down. But I changed my mind when we arrived at the Folk Art
Museum because there were photographers all over and actually, for once,
the car would have been a big hit because just getting out of a crummy taxi
was a bomb.
Ultra Violet was there and now, thinking about it, she must have had a
facelift. She looked like the first day I met her, really great. Really really
great. She was wearing a dress with gold coins pinned to it and she was
selling them. She already sold the good American ones. I think she got the
idea of owning gold coins from me in the days when she thought that
whatever I did must be really smart.
We went over to the Four Seasons. There were cocktails in the lobby
before dinner. I was seated in between Sandra Weidenfeld and Estée Lauder.
Estée was really nice, she’d put perfume on the table for free samples. Peter
Duchin’s orchestra was playing.
Marina Schiano didn’t like the end of the table she was at—she was
upset she wasn’t with Fred, Diana Vreeland, and Diane de Beauvau—and
she said that for $100 she should be able to sit next to her husband, Mr.
Hughes. [Marina was married to Fred Hughes for a few years although
they maintained separate residences.] She went over to Bob who was at
another table having a miserable time, and told him that she was going
home—this is 10:15—and to pick her up for the Studio 54 party in about an
hour. She said that she could have been out with Marvin Gaye instead of at
this thing.
Doc Cox was really drunk, drooling over Bob’s Kevin. Kevin Farley. I
signed things for people and felt bad because they were my friends and I
went blank and couldn’t remember their names—people I’d known for
twenty years who gave me my first job.
And then afterwards Alana Hamilton was giving a birthday party for
Mick Flick at Studio 54. I was so happy to go to a big fun party after that
horrible dinner (cab $2.50).
Peter Beard was at Studio 54 and for the first time I saw him so drunk
that his words were slurring. He told me he was glad after the Montauk fire
burned his mill-house down that he wouldn’t be doing diaries anymore, that
he was actually relieved they’d all been destroyed. I told him not to be
relieved, that he had to do more. Sterling St. Jacques was there, he said he
has a part in The Wiz—he and Pat Cleveland have broken up. He brought
me over to Shirley Bassey and she seemed thrilled to meet me.
Stevie Rubell was nice to me and kept bringing me vodkas, but the
vodka there is the cheapest and I hide it. But when Bob came over it was
just what he drinks so I gave it to him, but Kevin shook his finger and said
that it was a “no-no”—he doesn’t want Bob to drink. It’s so sick, Bob
letting himself be henpecked.
Tuesday, September 20, 1977
Watched Stanley Siegel. Brooke Shields didn’t show up so he did a live
telephone interview with Sophia Loren, who’s in town at the Pierre. Her
English is good now. But you know, seeing her on TV this morning, she’s
just … trashy. She said she wouldn’t let her daughter be in a movie like
Brooke Shields’s Pretty Baby, and I mean didn’t she just fuck her way to
the top? Who’s she kidding? She’s so pretentious. I’m supposed to see her
on Thursday. Oh, and Monday afternoon at the office I stood there and
listened to an unbelievable conversation—Vincent on the phone with our
lawyer discussing if I should serve a summons on Sophia Loren when I
went to have dinner with her! This is for the lawsuit we’re bringing against
her husband Carlo Ponti, who produced Frankenstein and Dracula [see
Introduction]. They were completely serious. Now see, it wouldn’t be direct
—there would be this little man with me and when Sophia opened the door,
the little man would slap her with the summons. Then she and I would have
dinner as if nothing happened. This is what they were working out for me! I
just watched Vincent’s end of the discussion on the phone and my mouth
was open.
Catherine said we had to go to the screening of the Sophia Loren movie
since it was especially for us because were going to interview her. Cabbed
to 1600 Broadway ($2.60).
It looked like a 1950s Italian movie. Beautiful settings. Sophia is a
housewife with cute fat Italian kids, and on a day when Hitler’s in Italy, the
whole building goes to his parade. Her bird that talks gets away and she’s
intrigued by Marcello Mastroianni, the man across the way. Then I fell
asleep. When I woke up he was telling her that he was a fairy and he
couldn’t get it up for women. Then I fell asleep again. When I woke up she
was on top of him and they were making it but they had their clothes on. It
was all mostly in one room. Then she’s home and everybody comes back
from the parade and she sees the light go out across the way and two guys
have come to take him away and send him to, you know, Fire Island or
someplace because that’s where they sent his boyfriend.
Wednesday, September 21, 1977—New York—
Columbus
On the plane Richard Weisman said that Vitas Gerulaitis had just been to
Columbus and staked out the best motel and the best girls to call.
As soon as we landed Richard called the girls’ number and they arranged
to meet at midnight in Richard’s room. Then we went to the motel Vitas
said to. It was almost a dump but it was okay, like every other motel, like
being at a Holiday Inn, with a pool and everything.
As soon as we checked in there, we went to another motel, the one that
Jack Nicklaus owned, to meet him.
We waited while he talked on the phone. He looked fat, but Richard said
that he was once 280 and was now down to 180. He was very suntanned,
but his eyes, around them, were white where his sunglasses were, and his
hands were tiny and white, he wears gloves on the course. His hair was
blond, and he said something about needing a haircut, but I had the feeling
that his hair was just the way it always looked, puffed just-so over the ears,
like it was “coifed.”
I started taking pictures but none of them were coming out good. It’s so
hard taking pictures of suntanned people because they come out so red. He
was being friendly and Richard was trying to be friendly but somehow the
situation was strained, he didn’t understand what was going on. And I had
my tape recorder with me and was taping, but when I sort of realized that he
wouldn’t understand that, I just quietly shut it off. Richard’s secretary
Claudia showed him pictures I’d done of Tom Seaver, Muhammad Ali, and
Pelé, but he still didn’t really understand why we were there taking pictures
of him. Richard had sent him a book showing my paintings but he didn’t
understand the style.
And then he got another phone call, and we were getting nervous and I
took some more pictures and he didn’t like any and we didn’t like any. Not
getting good pictures made things more and more awkward and finally he
said, “Well, you know what you want—you don’t tell me how to tee off on
the green,” and I felt more uncomfortable and everyone just wished we
could leave. Then finally he liked one but it was just nothing, a front shot,
and I didn’t see any difference between the rest of them and that one, but he
said he didn’t want to be looking—what’s the word? It’s like cocky, but it’s
a short word—he didn’t want to look like that, and he thought this one
made him look like a nice person. He talked about his wife and his kids.
Forgot to say that when I was taking the pictures, there wasn’t a golf
club around, they were all down on the course. He went around to some of
the offices asking if anyone had clubs and finally came back with some that
he said were just like his, and I didn’t know that golf clubs have hats on
them with drawstrings.
We ran out and dished the whole thing in the car and that’s when it
suddenly occurred to me that he actually had looked like he might be lonely
and maybe we should have invited him out with us, but he hadn’t suggested
anything himself, and nobody just knew what to do, so nothing happened.
We looked around for a place to have dinner. Fred and I wanted to go back
to New York right after taking the pictures but the only flight out went to
Atlanta first.
We saw a building with about twenty floors and there was a restaurant at
the top that moved around in a circle. We decided not to go to that, and then
decided that we would go there after all. It had some name like River
House. It was next to a Howard Johnson’s. We went up in the elevator and
sat down in the restaurant, and it began to revolve. There were ladies there
playing harps.
Then we went back to Richard’s room with him to wait for the girls that
were coming at 12:00 and had tequila with him. When the girls called on
the phone he asked them to bring some jeans and a T-shirt for Claudia,
because they would all go nightclubbing and she hadn’t brought anything to
wear.
Claudia used to be an airline stewardess and I guess that’s where
Richard met her. She’s very pretty and she’s the best secretary. She just does
everything.
The girls arrived and they looked like New York models, very tall and
blonde and pretty and they were wearing the same kind of clothes, jeans
and T-shirts.
One of the girls was more the hustler and she went after Richard. All
they could talk about was Vitas so they called him in New York. The clothes
they brought for Claudia fit perfectly.
Fred and I went to our rooms. They were big and clean and everything,
but you’d wake up every half-hour because of the air conditioning. I slept in
my clothes because I knew there was a six o’clock wake-up call.
Thursday, September 22, 1977—Columbus—New
York
Valentino was at the office for lunch. Barbara Allen and Joe Eula were
interviewing him. Suzie brought Paige Rense who said, “I might as well ask
you right now and get it over with—can I do a story on you in Architectural
Digest” I said no, and she said, “Okay, I accept that,” but still she offered to
show me a good time in Los Angeles when I went. She said she fell asleep
with her soft contacts in and ruined her eyes for a while, and she can’t find
her glasses. Joel Grey’s daughter Jennifer was there, too. When Valentino
heard I was going up later to interview Sophia Loren he said that she was
the stingiest person, that she went to his place and wanted a 70 percent
discount and he said goodbye.
Cabbed up to the Pierre with Victor and Robert Hayes in rush hour ($4).
Went to the thirty-sixth floor to see Sophia. On the way in the cab I warned
Victor everything he shouldn’t talk about, like that we were suing her
husband.
John Springer met us. Sophia came out looking beautiful. Then she kept
telling us how poor she was, it was so ridiculous. Like we asked her if she
wore Valentino clothes and she said oh no, that they were much too
expensive for her, and she said she wouldn’t be able to afford to stay at a
place like the Pierre herself—that the movie people were paying for it. Like
she didn’t mention that she could have stayed right down the street in her
own apartment in the Hampshire House. But Victor was fun, he opened
champagne and said he saw all her movies in Venezuela when he was a
baby. I’d told Victor he couldn’t say any dirty words, because when we
went to Carlo Ponti’s villa in Rome a few years ago they told us that Sophia
didn’t allow any dirty words in her house and that we’d get kicked out if we
said any. Well, the running thing while we were at the Pierre, it turned out,
was that Sophia kept saying “fuck.” She and Marcello Mastroianni are on
the front page of the Post for being on the new Dick Cavett interview show
on channel 13 and Marcello said, “You have to fuck a lot,” when Dick
asked him how do you be a Latin Lover. Sophia seemed to think that was so
“cute,” so she was repeating it. After about an hour she wanted to get rid of
us, and we ran out.
Friday, September 23, 1977
Another cousin of Catherine’s was in town, Evgenia something, a Guinness,
and she came by to get a copy of the issue of Interview that has Erskine as
an “Interman.” I asked her what she was doing in town and she said she’d
come “for a funeral,” and I asked who died and she said her stepfather,
Robert Lowell. He’d just come in from Ireland and got a cab at the airport
and had a heart attack. He was sixty-one. I guess he was the number-one
poet since W.H. Auden died.
Sunday, September 25, 1977
Had a bad night. Woke up at 6:00, fell back asleep, up again at 8:00 and
9:00, turned on the TV and watched all the cartoons. Archie and Amos were
still away, they’d gone out to Montauk with Jed—we’re still trying to rent
the place.
Diana Vreeland called and said someone should talk to Fred about his
drinking problem, to tell him he’s so attractive but that when he’s drunk
he’s so unattractive.
Stevie Rubell called and said he had tickets to the Lillian Carter dinner
at the Waldorf. I had to get into black tie again but the bottoms always itch
so much, that’s why I wear bluejeans usually with the black-tie top. But
tonight I innovated something, I put the black pants on over my bluejeans
and it didn’t really look lumpy, it worked, so I walked out of the house in
two pairs of pants at 6:15. Cabbed to the Waldorf ($2.50). When I got there
Stevie was nowhere around.
A boy took me to a small room on the side where there was a reception
for Miz Lillian. She was wearing a blue sort-of-nightie and she was really
thrilled to see me, she loved the pictures I’d done of her, and she invited me
to the party in her room afterwards. She told me it was 7-N. Finally Stevie
came in, he’d just had a joint, he said, because these things made him so
nervous. He said he’d never been with so many other Jews before. It was
the Synagogues of America— something like that—giving a medal to her.
Then we went into the big room. I was at table 3. There were about
thirty-five Jews on stage. The Edgar Bronfman guy—the kidnappee’s father
—paid for the dinner. He talked very classy— if you closed your eyes you
thought it was Dick Cavett—and he was the only one who had a pretty
young wife who didn’t look Jewish. Andrew Young came over and shook
my hand, he looks like a butch Johnny Mathis. Then we had gefilte fish,
and it was a dairy dinner. While we ate they gave speeches and they sang
“God Bless America” in English and Jewish. The cantor had a very good
voice. It went on for hours. Andrew Young gave a speech about the United
Nations and freedom. The food looked like airplane food. The best line of
the evening was when Miss Lillian said, “I’ve never met so many Jews in
my life. I must tell Jimmy.” Everyone was so shocked they laughed. She
was good, nervous. There were autographed copies of her book Away From
Home at every place and I stole an extra one because Richard Kiley hadn’t
shown up.
So Stevie and I left the Waldorf and went out to look for his car, parked
on Lexington. A $30,000 Mercedes. He says it’s his only big enjoyment in
life, having a car and parking wherever he wants to, spending money on
parking tickets. He said he has money in shoeboxes. He says we should go
around to discos together because he has to pick up boys to work at Studio
54.
Bob Weiner is doing his first big story for New York and it’s on Stevie
and Studio 54. Bob Weiner seems like he’s in love with Stevie. (laughs)
Deeply. Bob used to be so straight, producing Broadway plays and then
around ‘69 he became a hippie type and started listening to rock and roll
and writing for that dirty newspaper that was like Screw.
At the party at The Ginger Man for the opening of the New York Film
Festival, Leticia Kent was there and John Springer who gave the party, and
Marcello Mastroianni and Gerard Depardieu who looked wonderful. He
asked me for a French cigarette and I told him I didn’t have one but that I
could get him a Quaalude, so I went over to Stevie and he gave me one to
take and I broke it into fourths and then didn’t take it. But Stevie kept
saying, “You didn’t take your Quaalude.” They don’t forget—people on
drugs really do remember. So I let him see me taking part of it.
Then I saw Howard Smith from the Voice so I went over to say hello.
Howard’s been writing letters to Valerie Solanis, that’s the latest thing, he
must have run into her in the Village. He told me he was sorry he’d started
that, that he doesn’t know how people that crazy are out in the streets. I told
him maybe it was because she worked for the CIA.
Stevie wanted to go to the Village to the clubs, he wants to open one
down there. The first place we went to was the Cock Ring. The area has
changed, they got rid of the back rooms and the bars are really crowded.
Stevie is Mr. Big down there, he recruits all his waiters from there. Right
before we went into the Cock Ring I took my outer black formal pants off
and went in my jeans underneath. It was jammed with cute kids dancing.
Then Stevie gets bored right away everywhere and wants to leave. Went
to 12 West and I wouldn’t dance, so Stevie danced with a pillow. He kept
getting poppers and putting them under my nose. Bob Weiner saw Stevie
holding the poppers and me sniffing and went out to the car. Later he said
that his whole clean innocent image of me was blown, that there I was on
Quaaludes, taking poppers and drinking. I said, “Did you actually see me
take a Quaalude?” Then I showed him the bits of the Quaalude still in my
pocket and I informed him that I hadn’t been inhaling when Stevie put the
poppers under my nose. Then he said okay, but that I was drinking, and I
said, “I always drink.”
Then to the Anvil for a minute. There was a colored guy at the door who
didn’t want to let Stevie in, he started screaming that Stevie hadn’t let him
into Studio 54 and who did he think he was now, trying to get into the
Anvil, but then he saw me and he waved me in, and he finally let Stevie in,
too, but he made him pay. Upstairs there was “entertainment.” It was a drag
queen. Richard Bernstein was there, he told me that Valentino had ordered
forty portraits from him, then only took two. Remember, he’s the one who
called Sophia Loren the cheapest person in the world for wanting a 70
percent discount! A part of the show that I did think was funny was a boy
taking off fifty pairs of jockey shorts.
Stevie said he had to get up at 8:00 because the restaurant meatman
comes on Monday mornings and he has to pick out the meat. He lives in a
new building on 55th Street. We got into the car and Stevie dropped me
home and I kissed him in front of Bob Weiner so that Bob would have
something else to write about. That was around 5:00.
Tuesday, September 27, 1977
Ahmet Ertegun called and invited me to a testimonial dinner for Pelé that
evening. I spent the rest of the day calling people to be my date but nobody
wanted to go. Dropped off Vincent and Catherine (cab $4). Changed, then
took a cab to the Plaza ($2). Met Howard Cosell and his wife and was
surprised he was so tall. I liked him, he was fun.
My portrait of Pelé was going to be presented. Pelé’s mother and father
were there and they were cute, and his wife, who was white, but everybody
in South America is all different colors— his parents were different colors,
too. After the dinner we went over to P.J. Clarke’s ($2.50). Tucker
Frederickson, the football player that I like so much, was there. He’s so
adorable I kept telling him he should do more TV, but he said he didn’t
want to. Had a bowl of chili.
Thursday, September 29, 1977
Talked to Fred. We were arranging to go up to meet Nenna Eberstadt who
worked at our office all summer for lunch at her school uptown on 83rd
Street—Brearley.
Before I left the house I happened to talk on the phone to David
Whitney. David said he hadn’t even started on the Jasper Johns show. Then
he told me something that scared me when I heard it, and scared me even
more as the day went on. He said that when Rauschenberg was down in
Texas for a show, all the art people were on a chic art-people charter bus
and it stopped at a gas station and the men’s room was locked so
Rauschenberg peed on the side of the bus and two Texas Rangers appeared
and arrested him and took him to jail! I mean if you’re walking along the
street in New York, what if you really have to pee or shit? What do you do?
Do you have to do it in your pants? Will they arrest you if you do it in the
street? And if you can prove that you really had to go, will they let you go
but will you have a criminal record? I guess you have to do it in your pants.
Cabbed up to Brearley with Bob and Fred. Left from the office so I took
a stack of Interviews up with me. When we got to 83rd and First Avenue
(cab $5) we walked in and left the magazines at the front for the girls to
take. I forgot that this wasn’t all a high-school-age place. I was just thinking
that all the girls were older, like Nenna. Well, Nenna came to meet us and
she looked like she was suddenly ten years old! I couldn’t believe it! In a
little black uniform and one of those skirts, you know that’s short, like—
what’s the name? Like the ladies wore in the sixties … a miniskirt. And her
friend was in a uniform, too, a very beautiful girl who also looked ten years
old. And Fred told us a secret, that Mick Jagger had called Nenna and
Freddy Eberstadt answered and started screaming at him, “How dare you
call a young girl like my daughter? You, an older man of forty!” Mick took
offense and said “I am not forty. I’m thirty-four. And Nenna goes out with
Mr. Fred Hughes, who is also thirty-four. And besides, I don’t go around
ringing people’s doorbells at 4:00 in the morning.” Which was a reference
to Freddy Eberstadt ringing Mick’s doorbell at that hour looking for Nenna.
As I looked around at how young the girls were, all I could think about
was the Interviews upstairs and about Rauschenberg getting arrested in
Texas and about Roman Polanski, how the poor guy could make a mistake
because these young girls could be as young or as old as they wanted to
look.
Tina Radziwill was there at Brearley, too. She’s changed a lot since that
summer Lee rented Montauk. She has so many pimples now. I mean, you’d
think they would have found a way to cure pimples. If a girl like Tina who
can spend all the money in the world to get rid of pimples can’t get rid of
them, then there’s no hope for me.
Nenna introduced us to another one of her girlfriends and she looked
forty! She had tits so big and an ass so big. She was white, but there were a
couple of coloreds around the school, too. Then they gave us a terrible tour
of the library and the gym and where the twelve-year-olds eat. All I could
think of was the magazines with maybe nude photos in them. I had Bob run
upstairs to take them back, but they were gone. I told Nenna she just had to
tell the headmistress that we’d just left them there meaning to pick them up
on the way out and she said she’d try to fix it. Cabbed back to the office
($5).
Mick arrived twenty minutes late in a really good mood—I was
photographing the Stones. Then everybody started arriving—Ron Wood and
Earl McGrath and Keith Richards who I think is just the most adorable
person, I love him. I told him I was the first person to meet his wife, Anita
Pallenberg. In the sixties.
Richard Weisman was sending down tickets to a party for Ali, if Ali won
his fight with Shavers.
Suzie Frankfurt called. She’s been seeing Sam Green all the time and I
said to her, “Do you think that Sam Green doesn’t talk about you?” She
said, “No, Sam loves me.” I said, “You mean you think he doesn’t go all
over town repeating to everybody what you say?” She said, “But he doesn’t
talk about you.’1 I said “Yes, and that is because I never never tell him
anything.”
Dropped off Catherine and Peter Marino. Peter and Catherine got
friendly in Montauk. I can’t figure Peter out, he’s nutty. I told him how he
owed his whole life and architecture career to us—how we gave him his
first job—took him out of his business knickers and gave him his long pants
and he said that well now he was in Armani suits and that we sure didn’t put
him in those. He was funny (cab $4).
Changed at home. Ate some of Archie’s food then started walking up to
730 Park Avenue to a dinner for a Swiss guy who’s in town, who said he’s
been dying to meet me. After dinner I went down to 66th Street to wait for
my date, Kevin Goodspeed, who I’d met at Studio 54. He’s big and he’s like
my old crush from the sixties, Rodney La Rod, and at first I thought he’d be
a good bodyguard until later in the evening when somebody stepped on his
camera and beat him up.
Cabbed to the party for Muhammad Ali at the Americana ($2.50). It was
one of those parties where you’re Waiting for Nothing. Ali never came, they
said he was too badly hurt in the fight. But one great thing happened. I met
a black lady boxer. She invited me to go see her box.
Then Richard Weisman wanted to go dancing so we went over to Studio
54. Walked. Stevie Ru-bell is madly in love with me. And Victor was there
and got jealous of my date Kevin. Victor was wearing “punk pants” and
they had a normal fly that was zipped and everything but at the bottom of
the zipper was a hole for his cock to hang through, and you didn’t even
notice it at first, everything looked like it was in order. He was also wearing
a sequined Halston bandanna like the kind he gave me. Then Kevin and I
went down to Kevin’s neighborhood on Third Avenue in the 30s to Sarge’s,
the all-night coffee shop, and after we had coffee I left him with some
people he knew there. It’s supposed to be the best coffee shop (breakfast
$10). When I got out on the street a kid in a Mercedes pulled up and said he
used to live on my block on 66th Street. I made him describe the street and
he did know it so I got into the car and he dropped me off. By then it was 5
A.M.
Friday, September 30, 1977
The nightlife is running me down, I can’t even drag myself up on the
pillow. And I’m still worried about getting arrested for leaving the
Interviews up at Nenna’s school. What if there was a naked picture in that
issue? I’m afraid to look. They only arrest the publisher. I’m the publisher,
Fred’s the president. Oh God. I don’t want to think about it. What was Larry
Flynt when they arrested him? The publisher? Why don’t they arrest the
president—or the editor? Bob could just write his “Out” column from jail.
It would be a new scene for him to cover.
And speaking of scenes, Steve Aronson read PH’s first draft of Popism
and said he will edit it for us, after all—that it needs work but that it’s
fascinating because it’s a scene that hasn’t been shown yet.
Paul Jenkins came to the office. He’s a painter who puts paint on canvas
and lets it roll, and his work is like somebody else’s but he does it well. I
think he’s interested in a portrait. He’s with the rich du Pont girl, Joanne.
Saturday, October 1, 1977
Went to the bus at Rockefeller Center to go out to see the Cosmos soccer
team play (cab $3). The bus was loading with Nan Kempner and Jerry
Zipkin and related types. The White House people, Tom Beard and Joel
McCleary, were getting into a limo and invited me into that. The Carter son
who isn’t married was supposed to be coming, that’s why the limo, but he
didn’t come.
In about forty-five minutes we were out in Jersey at the stadium club.
We got the VIP treatment, up to have brunch and bloody marys. Robert
Redford and Muhammad Ali were there. Also Gordon Lightfoot and Albert
Grossman, who used to manage Dylan. He told me again that he has my
silver Elvis, but I don’t understand that, because I gave it to Dylan, so how
would Grossman get it?
Kissinger was there waving his hands around like the pope. There were
lots of Secret Service around. Then at 1:30 they made them go out to the
game.
I went over to Muhammad Ali and said hi, but he looked at me blankly,
he didn’t seem to know who I was or remember that he met me down at his
training camp in Pennsylvania. His people who tell him who’s who and
what’s what weren’t around and he was just alone, eating, so I got
embarrassed and backed away.
In the stands I sat next to Robert Redford’s two kids, about twelve and
thirteen. Everybody said this was the first time Redford was out in public
letting himself be photographed. There were empty seats all around me
where the Carter kid was supposed to be but he never showed. Muhammad
Ali was in front of me and they’d put the Carter kid next to him. Ali’s wife
and kid were there, too. Elaine of Elaine’s was there, too, she told me she
was on a high-protein diet. But later I saw her stuffing herself with rolls.
Pelé played on one side and then on the other side. When it started to
rain, they passed out raincoats to the VIPs and it was nice in the rain, it
made it more exciting. Seventy-five thousand people there. The parks
commissioner invited Ali into his glass box so he wouldn’t get wet. When
we were getting really soaked we jumped into somebody’s box and the little
girl in it said her father owned the Giants.
Kissinger shook my hand, but he shook everybody’s. The men from
Ali’s Pennsylvania camp recognized me and asked if I’d talked to Ali and I
lied and said no.
Monday, October 3, 1977
Went to see Dr. Poster about my red eye and he said it was just a broken
blood vessel, to put hot compresses on it. But I forgot to.
Catherine and I went over to Gleason’s Gym to interview the girl boxer,
Jackie Tonawanda (cab $2.60). Lots of good-looking fighters went by. I
asked about how you can own a fighter and Jackie said it would cost mostly
to pay her, because she would manage them, and that would be $150 a
week, and then some more to rent a locker at Gleason’s. Catherine fell in
love with a 6’ 5” black fighter who was jumping rope. I tried to get her
interested in a cute Irish kid but she said he was too ordinary-looking.
Jackie wasn’t too good an interview because I’d mentioned something
about a movie and that was all she would keep bringing up. She’s ready to
go to Japan and fight a 6’3” Japanese-Irish girl.
Then we cabbed up to the William Morris Agency ($3). We went up to
the thirty-third floor. A guy there, Steve Pincus, had been calling the office a
lot wanting me to come over and talk to them about representing me. The
meeting was fun, he had other guys in there and they were telling me they’d
get me American Express TV commercials and Broadway shows and
starring roles in movies, and Catherine got so impressed, and God it was so
boring, you’d think I hadn’t heard all this for years, going up to William
Morris and then after the Big Meeting, nothing happens. But I enjoyed
going there. They were all married but they looked like closet queens.
Catherine told me not to call her a “rich bitch” because it was undignified.
So now I finally know what to call her.
At dinner at Peter Luger’s Steakhouse I told Diane de Beauvau who was
with her boyfriend Pierre that when I was leaving the house it was on the
radio or the TV that a five-year-old Patino girl had been kidnapped. Diane
burst out crying hysterically and everybody turned on me and said I’d
spoiled the party. Stevie went to the phone and called the wire services to
get the story, and it was only a distant relative. But Diane was still
hysterical, and they were saying, “To cry is a good thing, it brings out
feeling,” and in the middle of all this the cute Irish waiter came over and
told me that he had an Art Deco radio in his room—that he knew I collected
them.
Timothy Leary told about how in the early seventies Diane had chased
him around Switzerland and sent him notes and letters and he said that it
was actually Diane carrying on like that that got him locked up. He told me
I was one of his most favorite people of always. Bob Weiner was there, still
researching his article on Steve, and I’m sure it’s going to be so bad because
1) it’s him writing it and 2) he didn’t pay any attention at dinner while all
these great things were happening and with all these great people together
—he said it was “boring.” And every time Stevie would pick up a boy Bob
would turn the other way. And then Stevie started rushing everybody—
that’s all he likes to do is rush to get someplace and then rush to leave. But
Tim told him that for years—in prison—he’d been rushed and told what to
do, and he wasn’t going to rush anymore.
Then we went to Elaine’s. Stevie was too zonked to drive, so Diane’s
boyfriend, Pierre, drove. First we had to stop at Stevie’s house and he went
in to get more Quaaludes or poppers or something, I think. Margaux
Hemingway was with us. Her marriage to the Wetson hamburger guy is
splitting up and Tim was after her, I guess. Then Stevie wanted to go to the
Barefoot Boy and the Gilded Grape.
Tuesday, October 4, 1977
Lady Isabella Lambton, Ann’s sister, is now answering the phones at the
office while our receptionist Laura goes to Berlitz to finally learn English.
After a benefit fashion show of Madame Grès, went up to Diane de
Beauvau’s new showroom to see her first collection. I had to start lying
immediately and tell her it was all great, but especially after seeing all those
beautiful Madame Grès and all the Halstons, her stuff just looked so bad.
She acts like a businesswoman—she doesn’t take much coke in the day—
but I don’t know, I think it’s going to be a disaster.
At dinner later at Quo Vadis, Tim Leary was really sweet, he talked
some more for the tape about how Diane writing him those love letters and
taking acid when she was fourteen got him in jail in Switzerland. He said
the jails in Geneva can be like a good hotel—if you pay them they bring
you pastries on a tray. And I can’t believe it, he remembers each time he
ever saw me in the sixties and then in St. Moritz—what I was wearing,
everything—and I didn’t even know at the time that he would be noticing.
Like when we went to his lecture and light-show things in the East Village.
He said that if he had it to do all over again he wished he were with the
Velvet Underground because they did so much and were really creative.
I just think he’s so intelligent. He probably really was with the CIA,
because he was the one at Harvard, and now they’re showing that the
government was using LSD so far back, and Tim was the master, and when
you’re a master they do approach you.
Diane de Beauvau and Pierre were on a couch arguing. She wanted him
to think she was in love with Tim Leary and that they’d had a romance, so
to do that she made a point of telling Pierre that there was absolutely
nothing going on, that she wasn’t in love with Tim. So then he had to do the
thing of caring because that was how she would be happy.
Thursday, October 6, 1977
Woke up with a sore throat and I think it’s from kissing all those funny girls
who come running over to me. I never used to do that, but they’re just there
and you don’t want to be rude.
I just love all the boys at Studio 54. They’re like Rodney La Rod was in
the sixties—all jangling nerves and they’re all hustlers and they (laughs)
prey on movie producers, they want to be famous and they can’t wait.
Friday, October 7, 1977
I was invited to see the Four Seasons in their goodbye concert at Radio
City. They thanked the original producer, Bob Crewe, which is how I knew
them in the sixties. Frankie Valli came over after the concert to say hello,
I’d given my program over to be autographed by him, and he said that Bob
Crewe had been hit by a car in California and that he might lose his leg and
that I should give him a call because he was really down. I always thought
that Frankie cared so much about Bob, but then he didn’t seem too upset.
He was concerned, but not as concerned as I would have thought.
Don Kirshner was there and we three had our pictures taken together.
Then we went over to Studio 54. Stevie introduced me to Roy Cohn who
was with four beautiful boys, but butch-looking. A boy is “butch” if he
weighs over 170 and he’s an all-American football-type, a spilling-out
masculine man. A butch person looks like—well, we don’t have one at our
office. Maybe the building super. Yeah, a thinner version of Mike the super,
that’s “butch.”
Monday, October 10, 1977
Cabbed to Diane de Beauvau’s ($2.25). She told what she’d just learned
about Barry Landau, that creepy guy we can’t figure out, who somehow
gets himself around everywhere with every celebrity. She thought he was a
friend doing nice things for her, when suddenly she got a bill from him for
$2,000 for getting her on The Mike Douglas Show! Barry had asked her if
she wanted to go on and she said sure. He probably sends Stevie Rubell
bills, too.
Went to Elaine’s ($3.25). Bob Weiner was there, upset because New York
magazine had rejected his article on Stevie. He was sort of passed out but
with his eyes open.
Tuesday, October 11, 1977
Cabbed up to Parke Bernet, got a few catalogues because they seem to be
the best reference books (cab $2, books $24). Ran into Kenny Jay Lane
who’s put his whole house and furnishings up for auction—now that he’s
getting divorced from Nicky Weymouth he can present it as something he’s
doing “for the settlement.” When you see all his junk together, it really
looks bad.
Went to Chembank ($4). Steve Aronson was at 860 looking around, he
had a beautiful girl with him. He says he can’t start editing Popism until
next week. Vincent was off in Montauk, checking on the place—Jay
Johnson and Tom Cashin are still out there roofing and repairing. By
closing time Vincent still wasn’t back, so I locked the place up myself. And
when it’s my responsibility, I get so nervous I do things like pull out the
plugs to the Xerox machines so they won’t start a spontaneous combustion;
I decided I would risk leaving the refrigerator on. When I got home there
was a message from Barry Landau, somehow he’d gotten my number. So
now the three worst people to have your unlisted number have mine—Bob
Weiner, Steve Rubell, and Barry Landau.
Lester Persky called and invited me to a screening of Equus. I loved
Peter Firth, he was wonderful and Richard Burton was wonderful. The
movie has the longest nudity. Usually when they photograph a cock they
make it fall in the shadows and the shadows always fall where the cock is.
But in this movie the cock always falls right where you can see it. Peter
Firth’s dick gets in the way when he moves. It’s the biggest cock on screen
and not circumcised. As big as Joe Dallesandro’s.
Peter Firth came over to me, he’d imported a girl from England for all
the publicity and she was there and we had a good time. There was lots of
food, but I’d already eaten. Then Peter Firth wanted to take the girl dancing
so we walked over to Studio 54 for the Elton John thing. Stevie invited us
all up to the booth where Michael Jackson was and Michael was sweet—in
his high voice he asked me about art. David Hockney was there. The
photographers were there and wanted Elton John and me to pose for
pictures together so I asked Elton if I could kiss him, but he didn’t answer
me so I didn’t. Maybe he didn’t hear me. He was wearing a hat because of
his hair transplant.
In order to get out of Studio 54 alone, I had to avoid all the boys I’ve
been accepting rides and dates from lately. I had to look nervous and run
around so no one would follow me—you know, the “frantic” technique.
Friday, October 14, 1977— New York—
Springfield, Massachusetts—New York
Up to Massachusetts to photograph Dorothy Hamill for the Athletes
portfolio. It was nice to photograph someone really pretty. Dino Martin’s
sister was with her.
Barbara Allen’s name was linked with John Radziwill’s in “Suzy’s”
column. Philip Niarchos and Barbara have broken up and he’s got a new
girlfriend. Barbara’s letting all these rich guys slip through her fingers, but I
guess she’s working hard, wanting to be an actress.
Saturday, October 15, 1977
Ran into John Weitz, the fashion designer, on Madison with his wife Susan
Kohner, the actress who gave up acting to be married to him. He was going
over to Fraser-Morris, so I went with them.
They wanted to invite me to a party, they said, and asked for my number.
They wanted the home number I guess and I gave them the number down at
the office and I don’t think she liked that.
Went to Studio 54 and it was jammed. Victor and Halston were there
together. It was a party (laughs) to show that Victor wasn’t blackmailing
Halston. Victor said that Bobby Zarem had called and said there was a
rumor that one of Halston’s employees was blackmailing him, so they
should appear together to squelch the rumor and have lots of pictures taken.
Then later Chris Makos took us to a bar on 52nd called Cowboys, a hustler
bar where Ara and Zoli go to pick up beautiful kids for models. Left about
4:30, got newspapers and magazines ($5).
Sunday, October 16, 1977
David Whitney called about going together to the Jasper Johns opening that
night at the Whitney—Philip Johnson was going with Blanchette
Rockefeller.
Pretty day. Cabbed downtown ($3.50) then walked to work. Richard
Weisman and his little kids arrived and Margaret Trudeau was with them.
She’s really split up with her husband now so she lets herself be
photographed with anybody, and I guess she’s been dating Richard for a
while. She was primping the kids’ hair. I didn’t have enough light bulbs
though, and they fought over the teddy bear.
Cabbed to the Whitney ($2). Bob Rauschenberg blew me a kiss in the
elevator and then later came over and said it was silly to blow a kiss so he
kissed me. Jasper was drinking Jack Daniel’s. It was a small party, just for
lenders, old people. I ran downstairs to get a catalogue and then I looked
around to have Jasper sign it, but I couldn’t find him so I had Rauschenberg
sign it, and then I did find Jasper and he rubbed out Rauschenberg’s
signature and signed “To a Lender.”
John Cage was there with Lois Long, de Antonio’s first wife. Jack and
Marion Javits were there, and Jack gave a speech. Robert Rosenblum was
there, and he just got married. I guess it’s another Nicky Weymouth-Kenny
Jay Lane-type thing. He’s from the gay old Henry Geldzahler crowd. Mrs.
Irving who’s the president of the museum whose mother is a Whitney was
there. She lives down the street from me and I’ve asked her a few times if I
could rent the garage space in her carriage house for the car. I want it so
badly, but nothing ever happens. At the Whitney she said that she definitely
would call me—and I think it’s because I ran into her husband going into
the garage that morning.
When we sat down to dinner there were packages of Philip Morris
cigarettes at each place— they were the sponsor—and when nobody was
taking them I took them “for the box.” [see Introduction] There was one red
one but I couldn’t get it.
Monday, October 17, 1977
Cab to see Chris Makos’s show at the Andrew Crispo Gallery on 57th
Street, it was closing tomorrow (cab $2.15). The gallery was closed but they
opened it just for me. I thought it was really great. He did two photos
framed in the same frame—things like I used to do—and it looked
beautiful. I told Bob we should give Chris two pages a month in Interview
to do whatever he wants. Andrew Crispo came in and said that there were
very few photos sold from the show but that it looked good.
Cabbed to Chembank ($3). The office was busy. Kevin Goodspeed came
up for lunch.
Yesterday I saw a roach go into the water cooler, in between the jar and
the stand, then I saw it magnified (reimbursed Ronnie for cabs $2.10, $3.05,
$2.25).
Some African sculptor named Eugene, a friend of Joe Eula’s, was at the
office doing a sculpture of me. He says he needs to look at me but I think he
just wants a free place to work in. He sees me as a hermaphrodite. He’s a
terrible sculptor and it doesn’t matter if I pose for him all day or not, it’s
just going to come out like an African totem pole anyway.
Then Boris Tinter called and I wanted to escape the office and catch up
on the jewelry business so I went up to 47th Street (cab $2.80). Boris had
just been to Parke Bernet and had some good new pieces. I love to sit with
Boris in his cubicle and see all the strange people who come in. And I love
Boris’s fake hand.
Tuesday, October 18, 1977
Woke up after a good long night’s sleep. I needed it to clear up some
pimples. When you don’t sleep you really have them.
Doug Christmas didn’t send a check yet and I told Fred to tell him I
wasn’t going to Paris unless we got it.
Wednesday, October 19, 1977— New York—
Buffalo, New York
The plane ride was an hour (cab to LaGuardia $7, toll $.75, tip $2.25,
magazines $3.10). I asked Richard if he remembered to tell O.J. Simpson to
bring a football to the motel where we’d arranged to meet. He hadn’t. We
asked the manager to find one for us, told him that it’d be autographed by
O.J. Simpson and Andy Warhol. O.J. arrived. He remembered Regine’s and
asked about Marisa Berenson—they presented an Oscar together last year—
and was so sweet. He had a five-day beard and I thought the pictures would
be awful but Fred said no, that they’d be sexy, and he was right, they were.
O.J. is so good-looking.
Saturday, October 29, 1977—New York
Barry Landau called and said he had tickets for Liza Minnelli opening in
The Act.
So we picked up Diana Vreeland and Jamie Auchincloss, the half-
brother of Jackie O., and Ruth Warrick, who I know from years ago. She
was on As the World Turns, and now she’s Phoebe in All My Children. She
was Orson Welles’s first wife in Citizen Kane. She’s very good. The first
thing she said when she saw me was, “Your Soup Can changed this
country.” We got to the theater and I’ve never seen a crowd that big, not for
anyone, so many people.
Liz Taylor and Halston sat behind us, Sammy Davis was in front of us
with his wife, Altovise. Liza was on for the whole show. The Halston
clothes were beautiful, they really were. I asked Halston to make me up a
black sequined tuxedo with light blue shoes, too. It was so beautiful, the
boy suit. Everything was sequins in all different colors. Liza’s lost a lot of
weight.
Martin Scorsese’s parents were saying hello to me. He directed The Act.
Victor was putting down the clothes saying there was nothing creative about
them, which surprised me, that he would put down Halston’s stuff. But he’s
into punk now. When the show finished, people were doing the “bravo”
thing. Sammy Davis was standing up doing that.
Liz Taylor yelled at me for leaving Diana alone. She was glaring at me
for some reason, giving me that look like she’d scratch my eyes out. And
Liza came over and was kissing Liz so much for the photographers that I
didn’t talk to her. She and Jack Haley weren’t accepted into River House
yet, so they’re at the Park Lane Hotel. Jack Haley was sweet, he told me
that Liza may want a portrait.
We dropped off Diana and then Victor and I went over to Studio 54 ($4).
It was jammed with beautiful people. Now Studio 54 has its liquor license.
Stevie took me over to meet Vladimir Horowitz and his wife who’s the
daughter of Toscanini. He was thrilled to be there, in his seventies about,
but chipper, but when he got up he tripped. I wanted to get out of Studio 54
because there were so many beauties trying to get my phone number and I
was inviting everybody down to the office, so I had to leave.
Sunday, October 30, 1977
At Elaine’s Stevie Rubell told me he’s very rich, but that all his money’s in
assets or hidden away. People on drugs, you think they don’t notice things,
but they notice everything: Elaine had new menus and Stevie noticed the
new prices right away. I only noticed because it was clean.
Oh, and after he confessed how rich he was, he started to worry that I
only liked him for his money, and I mean, what can I say?
Monday, October 31, 1977
This week’s New York has a big article about Stevie in it by Dan Dorfman.
It said that he has $25 million and dirty fingernails—which isn’t true at all,
they’re not dirty—and in it Stevie called Nan Kempner a “pisser,” and Joe
Armstrong, the editor, told me that she’s already called up the magazine to
ask, “What’s a pisser?”
There was a Halloween party at Studio 54, Stevie kept giving me more
drinks and then somebody shoved a Quaalude in my mouth and I was going
to shove it to the side but it got stuck and then I drank vodka and it went
down and that was a big mistake. My diamond choker was pinching my
neck—I hate jewelry. How do ladies wear it? It’s so uncomfortable. I went
home by cab and got in around 6:30 somehow. My boyfriend Peter came up
and found me with my boyfriend Danny so I introduced them as my
boyfriends and that got them interested in each other so they went off
together.
Tuesday, November 1, 1977
Actually slept through PH’s call. Woke up at noon when Jed came in to
shake me. The nightlife is taking its toll.
Kevin Goodspeed called from San Francisco. There were about fifteen
really important calls that I never called back. Lucie and Desi Arnaz, Jr.
called—I’d seen them at a party the other night—and I haven’t returned
their call yet.
I dropped Catherine (cab $4). I think she’s having a secret affair because
she’s always busy now.
Wednesday, November 2, 1977
In the morning I didn’t feel so well so I went over to see Doc Cox and got
the surprising news that for the first time ever my blood pressure was up
from seventy-eight to ninety-seven. But I don’t know what that means. The
nurse didn’t seem upset.
Friday, November 4, 1977—New York—Los
Angeles
There was a problem with the plane to LA—it was stuck on the runway for
three hours. Victor was also on the plane going out to California for a
couple of weeks, but he was back in tourist. I read John Kobal’s Rita
Hayworth book and loved it.
Cab to Century City to meet Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. His manager was
good-looking and had a bull’s hat, like a cowboy hat but 100 times bigger.
Kareem was so big, I could walk through his legs. He was fun and he was
easy to photograph, the way I guess Negroes are. Everybody always forgets
the ball, though, and somebody had to go get one.
Went to the Beverly Wilshire. They were going to put me in the old part
but I wanted the new. Called New York. Nelson Lyon called. Don Simon
whose wife is dying of cancer in Texas called, and Fred invited him for
dinner.
Went over to the Polo Lounge.
Saturday, November 5, 1977—Los Angeles—New
York
Victor called and he was on an acid trip. I asked him how he could take
acid. Don Simon called to say he had a lot of fun the night before. We ran
into Marisa in front of the hotel, and she’s going to have her baby in two
weeks. She’s going to do The Vivien Leigh Story but I don’t know how she’s
going to do it—she can’t act. I mean, they went through so much to get a
good actress for Gone with the Wind and then now they’re having Marisa
play her?
Then as we were waiting, trying to get a cab to the airport, a whole big
limo filled with Vuitton luggage pulled up and a person with dark glasses
was in it. It was Francesco Scavullo, and he gave us a ride.
Sunday, November 6, 1977
David Bourdon called to say that Valerie Solanis had just called him, so
she’s still around town. He said she wanted the address of someone who
had put her S.C.U.M. Manifesto into their book on women’s lib, she wanted
to shoot them or sue them or something. Victor called from California, not
quite over his acid trip. He wants to stay out there, I told him he’d be
wanting to come back soon.
When I got to the Iranian embassy (cab $2.50) it was full of movie
directors and producers— Elia Kazan, Elliot Kastner, Milos Forman, Lester
Persky, Barbara Loden—thirty or forty people.
Ambassador Hoveyda said we should do Polaroids right then for the
portrait of Princess Ashraf, and get it over with, so we went into a room. It
was so easy. The Iranians have the best plastic surgeons in the world and
every picture—if you keep it very white—comes out great. The princess
said they’ve seen and done everything in town—every movie, every play,
even Outrageous. Dinner was great, the best ever there. The princess ate a
lot, but the queen when she was there didn’t eat much at all, maybe because
she was afraid of poisonings, although the food is pre-tasted. Then everyone
went upstairs and in barged Barry Landau with Margaret Trudeau. He got in
by saying he was my very best closest dearest friend. But it worked out
fine. And Bella Abzug and her husband Martin came with Shirley
MacLaine. Milos, who I really like, offered Margaret a part in Ragtime as
Evelyn Nesbit, but she’d have to go nude, he said, and she’s thinking about
it. I told Milos that I wanted a part in Hair and he said that if Margaret and I
were in Central Park tomorrow morning at 9:00 we could have bit parts. I
told him I wanted to be in Ragtime, too.
Monday, November 7, 1977
Raining very hard. It was a bad day, “family” problems. Jed came by the
office and was in the back in my working area and when he saw the stacks
of Polaroids of all the “landscapes” I photographed for the Shadow
paintings—all the closeups of cocks and things—he began screaming that I
had degenerated so low to be spending my time that way and he left, really
upset, and it ruined my afternoon.
Oh something I forgot to tell the Diary! Somebody told us Jack Haley
was a fag! Oh I wish I could remember who it was who told us! I thought
Liza had married a real man. He doesn’t seem gay, I was shocked. I don’t
think it’s true, though. I really don’t.
Anyway, I was upset about Jed being upset so I decided to treat myself
to junk food and gave Ronnie money to go out for tea from McDonald’s for
him and Chris Makos and Bobby Huston ($10). We sat on the couch by the
window in the conference room with the pouring rain talking through tea
about the movie Bobby Huston is writing that I assigned about kids who
commit suicide. Rupert came and helped me work. Barry Landau called. I
called Jed and he hung up on me. Then we all left the office and a
wonderful thing happened: the rain was so penetrating you were soaked in
two feet’s walk. It felt so exciting!
Later, at the Studio 54 party for Diane de Beauvau, Diane’s name was up
in lights. And I went over and screamed at Jay Johnson and Tom Cashin for
not telling Jed the things I asked them to to calm him down. So I screamed
and didn’t have a good time. Chris Makos and Bobby Huston were there,
and Robert Hayes saw Christopher and left, said he didn’t want to run into
him. They live together but they fight. Christopher said he hadn’t had sex
for three days so he was laughing and trying to rip Bobby Huston’s clothes
off. I didn’t have my camera, I wasn’t in the mood. Then I went home and
took the dogs out and they wouldn’t pee.
Tuesday, November 8, 1977
Richard Weisman came down and he had just gotten back from the Ken
Norton fight. He was in a nervous mood, and when he saw that I was doing
a new style of painting he got upset, he didn’t like it that I did the Chrissie
Evert in lots of little pictures instead of the big ones, but then he saw that
the Newsweek girl who was there interviewing me loved it, so then he kept
calling me back all day to say he was sorry.
At Richard’s party later for Vitas Gerulaitis Margaret Trudeau was there
with two girlfriends from Canada. One was just divorced and she had three
kids and she was fat and big and looked older than Margaret because she
was fatter, and she decided to put the make on me—she came over and put
her hands on her hips and gave me the best lines, I mean, you really could
fall for it! Nobody’s ever said anything like it to me, just the right thing,
something like: “You are so much more than I ever expected!” I told her
that Margaret should go back to her husband and go into politics and she
was thrilled to hear that, that’s what she thinks. She had a beautiful stole on,
in that deep purple color—“aubergine,” is it? They always say it in the
fashion shows and I never know what it is.
Lacey Neuhaus was there with François de Menil and she said that she
just met the number-one cowboy in the world and she was going to
interview him for Interview. Frank Gifford was there with a woman, maybe
his girlfriend, maybe his wife—she had so much makeup on, lots of white
all over her face and lots of eyeliner, but very beautiful. He loved his
painting. The owner of the Giants was there.
Wednesday, November 9, 1977
I forgot to say that one of these late nights, I watched the Tom Snyder show.
He had Roy Cohn on. Roy Cohn is now Stevie Rubell’s lawyer. Also
Carmine Galante’s. He was incredible, such a creep. He was saying Archie
Bunker things like “If I could get my hands on the Son of Sam I’d kill him
myself” and talking about the “reds,” and this crazy-looking person goes
into courtrooms, he looks like such a creep. You could just imagine him like
down at the Anvil in black leather, he would look so perfect. I bet he does
go to those places. He would. Or maybe he’s just the opposite. Yeah, he’s
probably just the opposite—he wears dresses. But the things he was saying,
like “Put everybody in the chair”—it was like hearing Paul Morrissey
talk…. Yeah, they asked him how he could defend Mafia people since he’s
so concerned about everything, and it was that “rights” thing. It always is,
you know—“They have a right to say they’re not Mafia and to be
defended.”
I was the centerfold of the Post, a photo in front of the Sports paintings
with a text by Jerry Tallmer. But I keep saying the wrong things. I said that
athletes were better than movie stars and I don’t know what I’m talking
about because athletes are all the new movie stars. And here we’re getting
all this publicity and it’s a month ahead of when the opening is. I think it
should be more toward the opening.
I read John Simon’s review attacking the way Liza looks. He was just so
awful. I mean if she ever saw that it would just crush her so badly. And
she’s actually nice-looking, I mean, I see her, she’s not hard to look at.
What does John Simon think he’s doing? His philosophy must be that only
good-looking people should entertain and I guess that’s what I think, too.
But Liza isn’t ugly!
I was also on the front page of the Voice, photographed next to the
empress of Iran for an article about torture in Iran.
Fred had tickets to the International Center of Photography benefit that
Jackie O. was putting on at the museum up on Fifth and 94th. I asked Jed if
he wanted to come but he said he was too tired (cab $2). Big mansion. The
dinner was a horror. They put us at such a nothing, nobody table. You can’t
imagine—I was sitting next to Fred!
So here we were in this room where we didn’t even recognize anybody
except each other and this girl comes over to me and says, “I know you
have a camera, and you can take pictures of everyone here except Mrs.
Onassis.” I didn’t think too much of it right then, I just thought she was one
of those nervous-type girls who run these events. And then that rich old guy
Nate Cummings was screaming at Fred to open a window, and at first Fred
was offended—Nate Cummings somehow picked him to scream at—but
then Fred figured out he was turning senile, so he decided to be a nice boy
and do it, and then the girl started screaming at Fred not to. And Fred’s
going to call her up and really tell her off, because things got much worse.
We got up and left that room and Fred went to find Diana Vreeland and
when we walked into the other room, there was everybody we knew! Peter
Beard was having fun with Barbara Allen and Lacey Neuhaus. I mean,
Catherine was sitting at Jackie’s table! But that’s not the most incredible
thing. When we walked into this room there were 4,000 photographers
taking pictures of Jackie. And that horrible girl had come over to tell me
Icouldn’t! Fred’s really going to scream at her. It was like a Bobby Zarem
event, there were so many cameras flashing.
I cabbed with Fred and Diana Vreeland to Sutton Place to Robin West’s
party for Jamie Wyeth. I didn’t have any change so I gave Fred $5. He gave
the money to the guy, the fare was $2.80, and he told him to keep $.60 and
the guy said, “How much is that?” and Fred started screaming, “I can’t do
your adding for you.” And all the way down in the cab Diana and Fred had
been fighting like they were a screaming old married couple. And the cab
driver was butting into the conversation with, “Wasn’t that Peter Beard’s
opening I picked you up outside of? Wasn’t he on the cover of the Sunday
Times?”
I talked to Carole Coleman from New Orleans. She’s Jimmy Coleman’s
sister. Then Bo Polk came into the room and it got crazy. He’d met Carole
at a bar and they’d gone out, and now he said things like “I want to eat your
pussy,” and on and on like that, they were just talking in front of me and
Carole wasn’t even embarrassed. I was surprised because she’s older than
most of the girls Bo Polk goes after. She has beautiful eyes and she’s rich
and never married, she could have been like Jennifer O’Neill, but she has
problems, I guess, and not too many boyfriends, but very attractive. And he
was saying things like “I want to lick your toes and up to and into your
cunt,” and then he’d turn to me and say, “I want you to be there and take
pictures, Andy,” and oh, he’s just nuts.
I went to say hello to Phyllis Wyeth and then Bo Polk and John Larsen
came over and Bo yelled to some girl that he’d put some coke on her clit
and John laughed and called him a coke tease. And then Bo and Carole left.
But then in a few minutes they came back in and talked about if they should
leave and she wanted to know what they were going to do and that went on
and on.
And then Carole and Bo and Jay Mellon and Catherine and I left and
walked. We passed a place that had Famous Amos cookies in the window. I
had never seen the package. It was the most beautiful picture of a cookie
that I’ve ever seen, and I went in and bought it, but when I opened the
package, the cookies were really little. It was the first time I was ever
deceived! They tasted good, but they weren’t big and beautiful like the one
on the package.
Thursday, November 10, 1977
Got a cab downtown, saw the driver’s name and I liked it—Vincent Dooley.
He was a really cute little boy, so good-looking. He said, “I don’t want to be
rude, but what does it feel like to be in Iran?” He had the Voice with my
picture on the front page on the seat next to him, the article about torture
that also mentioned Raquel Welch, Liza Minnelli, and Farrah Fawcett-
Majors. I got flustered and then told the kid that he was so good-looking,
why was he a cab driver. He said, “Well, the closest I ever came to acting
was I bought Joe Dallesandro’s dog.” He meant Caesar, Joe’s big dog that
was in Trash, that Paul brought back from Hollywood out of Jack La
Lanne’s dog’s litter. What he actually said was, “My girl and I bought his
dog.” The kid had a high voice so I had high hopes he was a fairy until he
said that. He said that he’s still with the girl and they still have the dog. I
was embarrassed about Iran so I gave him $5.
Cabbed to the bank ($3) then walked to the office. Then Rupert came by
and he’d had a facial all morning from the famous health lady—he’s more
interested in having his hair dyed and facials than in working. And if you’re
going to go for facials you have to go every day, and anyway, you might as
well do it yourself, all a “facial” means is that you take more than five
minutes to wash your face. Jay and Tom stopped by for a while, they were
mourning Michelle Long, their drag queen friend who just died.
Went to Regine’s dinner for Ira Von Furstenberg (cab $2). Regine never
showed up. Talked to Ira. And then her son came in and he was so good-
looking. We did his brother for Interview recently, Kiko Hohenlohe, but this
one was even better-looking. Ira said, “I could be the best stage mother in
the world.” But his father wants him not to be an actor. Princess Ira has
always wanted to be a movie star. Always. She’s been in lots of movies that
never made it. I saw on TV the other night the Darryl Zanuck movie that he
made for his girlfriend, Genevieve Gilles, and Ira was the second lead.
François Catroux was there with his wife Betty, and they were sitting
with Ahmet Ertegun. And in a case like that who do you say hello to first—
you go to the table and who do you kiss first? I know Ahmet was offended.
Princess Ashraf was there with her boyfriend who likes polo.
Catherine was talking to a beautiful woman and it turned out to be
Princess Elisabeth of Yugoslavia who seemed to know me, and she asked
why I wasn’t at Sharon Hammond’s cocktail party the day before. She’s
trying to get a green card and so is Ira, everybody wants a green card. And
an interesting thing is that how she knows Sharon is that Mr. Oxenberg,
Princess Elisabeth’s first husband, left her for Maureen McCluskey,
Sharon’s sister, and I can’t figure that out.
But anyway, Ira’s son was so handsome, he had the slight kind of accent,
just the right kind, like a kid that you would want to go out on a date with.
Friday, November 11, 1977
Sal Marciano from channel 7 Eyewitness News came to the office. They
shot about five or ten minutes’ worth in front of portraits. Then the people
on the fifth floor called and said there was someone stuck in the elevator
around the second floor named Victor. Vincent and I went out in the
vestibule and heard a little voice calling for help. The fifth floor had called
the Tenth Precinct, but they should have called the Thirteenth. The Tenth
was over on the West Side. When the police arrived the first two were
emergency-unit types, with ski jackets and baseball hats, like SWAT-
looking. Then two uniformed cops came.
They were doing everything by the emergency regulation rulebook. But
one kidded and said, “Do you have any dynamite?” in a loud voice. One
was peeking down into the shaft and the other was holding onto his
coattails. Finally from the third floor they lowered a rope ladder down to
the car and brought Victor up through the hole in the top.
Then afterwards they washed up in the bathroom and one took off his
belt and holster, and it was lying on the table, the gun in the holster, while
he washed up. They were both 6’5”.
Sunday, November 13, 1977
Victor called from San Francisco, he was getting dressed for a leather party.
He said he’d been to a party the night before where it was a bunch of
“straight” carpenters inviting a bunch of gay faggots. I don’t know what
that means.
Cabbed with Bob up to 94th Street to Paul Jenkins and Joanne du Pont’s
house. Ran into Linda Eastman’s father, the lawyer, and his wife on the
street.
Paul Jenkins is nutty. He told Bob and me, “I nearly fainted when you
called today to say that you couldn’t stay for dinner because you weren’t
invited for dinner. You’re invited next week.” Instead of just not saying
anything and we would have thought we’d been invited twice.
The du Pont lady told me that the first time she met me was at Mica
Ertegun’s and we were in front of the fireplace and the screen exploded.
She happened to be wearing the biggest diamond in the world, one of them.
She just got it from a sultan the day before, and when she got back to the
hotel that night—she wouldn’t say which hotel—she put it in the safe, and
that night, she said, they switched ice on her, gave her a piece of glass.
Paul Jenkins showed us his collection—American Indian and Indian
Indian stuff. When I was in India I could’ve gotten anything for nothing,
but it’s one of those things I just don’t understand. Like Chinese stuff—I
can’t tell which is the good stuff, it all looks like the same junk. And he told
us, “Lincoln Kirstein had his annual birthday freakout, but this time he
physically threw his boyfriend out of the house,” so Paul was setting the
guy up in a little apartment, he said, that belongs to Zero Mostel’s son. I
really want to do people like Lincoln Kirstein in Interview. I think it’d be so
fascinating to do him our way and do it really good.
Sunday, January 1, 1978
I felt like my fever was coming back. I’ve taken lots of the drugstore pills,
and it’s scary.
Monday, January 2, 1978
I cabbed down to University Place and it was bubbling and bustling (cab
$4). It was a half-holiday. I got to the office and I was a secretary,
answering the phone. Robert Hayes and Marc Balet came in to work on
Interview.
I called Bianca and she said to come right over to Halston’s, so we did
and Dr. Giller the cute doctor was already there. We cabbed to Saturday
Night Fever ($3) and when we got there it was all sold out. So then we
cabbed to the other theater where it was playing and that was sold out, too
(cab $3). Then we decided to try to see the Buñuel film, That Obscure
Object of Desire (tickets $14, popcorn $4). It was really good, more modern
than his early ones because every once in a while when it would get quiet,
they would look out the window through the venetian blinds at the Paris
street, and a bomb would go off—somebody would be blowing something
up. But none of us could understand the movie. It’s one role played by two
girls, and they never explain why.
Larry Rivers and his girlfriend came in and they sat near us. Larry told
me that he did Aly Kaiser’s portrait, and she’s the one that said she wanted
me to do her portrait and Victor kept telling me to call her and I just didn’t.
So Larry did her portrait, and I think he must have had to fuck her, I don’t
know.
So we walked back to Halston’s, and he’d fixed those pastas with meat
inside them, not ravioli but maybe they’re called cannellonis? And he’d
made a chicken, and we had lots of drinks. And Stevie Rubell was there,
and Bianca got upset because he reads the London papers and he quoted
something Mick had said. It was in Earl Wilson’s column here today about
him and Jerry Hall, so it probably was Stevie who gave it to him—I mean,
he pretends to be so friendly, and then he calls up the papers. And there
were so many English reporters outside Halston’s waiting for a statement
from Bianca or Halston.
Bianca and Halston seem like they’re a couple now, they really do. It’s
like a romance. But Bianca is so upset about Mick, and I’m surprised that
she is, because she could get somebody rich in a minute. Somebody said to
Halston, “Why don’t you marry Bianca?” and he put his hands on his hips
and said, “Because I’m the hostess here.”
And then we all went over to a place called the Ice Palace on 57th and
Sixth. It’s lesbians and hustlers. Bianca was dancing around, but she’s so
unhappy, and she and Halston were trying to get Jed to go home with them,
and they were asking me if this was okay. She said, “Nobody likes me.”
Everybody was wet from drinks getting spilled on them.
Tuesday, January 3, 1978
There’s an article in People about my Athletes show that’s on now at the
Coe Kerr Gallery.
When I got home from the office I made a lot of phone calls, then
walked over to Halston’s to pick up Bianca, she was cooking like a Puerto
Rican, and she had the whole house smelled up with onions and
hamburgers, she had them out on the counter. We cabbed up to 86th Street
($2.75) and we finally hit Saturday Night Fever at the right time and were
able to get in. Well, the movie was just great. That bridge thing was the best
scene—and the lines were great. It’s I guess the new kind of fantasy movie,
you’re supposed to stay where you are. The old movies were things like
Dead End and you had to get out of the dead end and make it to Park
Avenue and now they’re telling you that it’s better off to stay where you are
in Brooklyn—to avoid Park Avenue because it would just make you
unhappy. It’s about people who would never even think about crossing the
bridge, that’s the fantasy. And they played up Travolta’s big solo dance
number, but then at the end they made the dance number with the girl so
nothing, so underplayed. They were smart. And New York looked so
exciting, didn’t it? The Brooklyn Bridge and New York. Stevie Rubell
wants to do a disco movie, but I don’t think you could do another one, this
one was so great. But why didn’t they do it as a play first? What was this
first, a short story? They should have milked it—done it as a play first and it
would have run forever.
Bianca fell asleep. Somewhere in the theater we found Dr. Giller. But he
had related to the movie so well that he wanted to see it again, so we left
him there and went back to Halston’s.
Halston and Bianca were in the kitchen together cooking, and he said he
had so much energy he wanted to go dancing. He told me lots of gossip—he
said that the night before when the doorbell rang it was Liza Minnelli. Her
life’s very complicated now. Like she was walking down the street with
Jack Haley her husband and they’d run into Martin Scorsese who she’s now
having an affair with, and Marty confronted her that she was also having an
affair with Baryshnikov and Marty said how could she. This is going on
with her husband, Jack Haley, standing there! And Halston said that it was
all true, and he also said that Jack Haley wasn’t gay. You see? I was right, I
didn’t think so. Halston said Jack likes Liza but that what he really goes for
is big curvy blonde women. So when the doorbell rang the night before, it
was Liza in a hat pulled down so nobody would recognize her, and she said
to Halston, “Give me every drug you’ve got.” So he gave her a bottle of
coke, a few sticks of marijuana, a Valium, four Quaaludes, and they were all
wrapped in a tiny box, and then a little figure in a white hat came up on the
stoop and kissed Halston, and it was Marty Scorsese, he’d been hiding
around the corner, and then he and Liza went off to have their affair on all
the drugs.
Then Dr. Giller arrived from his second viewing of Saturday Night
Fever. Bianca had been fighting with Victor before he came, because Victor
was eating all the hamburgers she’d made and she was saying to save some
for Dr. Giller. But I think she just wanted them herself—her ass has gotten
really big.
The Sex Pistols arrived in the U.S. today. Punk is going to be so big.
They’re so smart, whoever’s running their tour, because they’re starting in
Pittsburgh where the kids have nothing to do, so they’ll go really crazy.
And Bianca loves Jed. She keeps calling the house, but he was off in
Connecticut with Judith Hollander and Sandy Brant for his interior
decorating business.
And they wanted to go out, but Halston didn’t like the way Bianca
looked, so he put three feathers in her hair. Oh, and Victor had just come
over to get an extra bottle of Vaseline from upstairs.
Wednesday, January 4, 1978
In the afternoon Edwige, the Queen of Paris Punk, came down for lunch,
and she brought a hairdresser guy down with her. She just got married and
her husband sent her on a honeymoon, she said. He stayed home. She’s a
lesbian and he’s a fairy.
And Edwige doesn’t have any hair, and the hairdresser had hair down
his back. Then about twenty kids that I’d met at Studio 54 and invited up
came by, so they saw Brigid the Fat Lady. Then they saw the Lesbian. Then
they saw the Hairdresser. Then the tour was over. But we got rid of lots of
Interviews on them. They’re from Southern University, something like that.
Cabbed to Bianca-at-Halston’s ($2.25). Bianca wasn’t there. She’d slept
all day and was out at her exercise class. Halston was on the floor having a
fit and he told lots of gossip. He said that once Liza and Bianca were both at
his house, they were in the bathroom peeing together—you know how girls
like to do that, have people to talk to while they’re in the bathroom—and
Bianca said that she had bigger muscles than Liza, and so they dropped
their tops and were comparing muscles in the mirror and Halston walked in
on them. And while Halston was telling me this, Bianca came in from
exercise class and Halston had her show her muscles, so she dropped her
top and showed them, and she really does have a good body on top. Then
she made another Puerto Rican dinner.
And then Dr. Giller came in and he’d slept a few hours after being up all
night dancing, so he was refreshed, and he started trying to find Halston’s
energy center, and while he did that, Halston was having white powder, so
finally when Dr. Giller announced that he’d found Halston’s energy center
Halston had had enough white powder so that he did have energy. Then
Bianca brought the food in and the doorbell rang and it was Victor in his
underwear.
And then it was time to dress Bianca for Studio 54. Then over to Studio
54 and it was full of pretty people.
Thursday, January 5, 1978
Bianca had slipped her number to Nastase at the tennis matches that
afternoon and when I got to Halston’s the phone was ringing and it was
Nastase, and Bianca told him to come over. He arrived with a boyfriend,
just one of his friends, and he was intimidated by the place—Halston was
dressing the Disco Queen in a coat he’d made for her that day, and she came
down the stairs and Halston was saying [imitates], “Come on, Disco
Queen.” He talks like baby talk. He didn’t put any feathers in her hair this
time. I told him he couldn’t, that the newspapers wouldn’t take her picture
if she put one more feather in her hair.
And then Nastase’s boyfriend decided not to come to Studio 54 with us,
and when we got in the limo Halston was yelling at the driver because he
couldn’t find the black radio station, he said, “What do you mean you don’t
know where the black station is—you’re black, aren’t you?” And then the
driver said he couldn’t see, meaning the radio dial, and Halston said, “What
do you mean you can’t see, you’re driving, aren’t you?” and then he told me
that you have to yell at the help or they don’t respect you. He has over a
hundred people working for him and they’re all so terrified of him, they’re
always asking each other what kind of a mood he’s in.
And I noticed something—Bianca had two blemishes on her face! She’s
never had a blemish! I guess she’s depressed about Mick, discoing the night
away. She stays out until 6:00 then gets up for her 8:00 exercise class.
Friday, January 6, 1978
Victor came over to the office a few times because he was nervous about his
party that night. Richard Weisman called and said Pelé was coming up to
the Coe Kerr Gallery and so I had to go up there to sign (cab $5). Pelé’s
nice, he invited me down to Rio as his guest (cab home $4).
Changed and went down to Victor’s loft (cab $4). Victor had a security
guard at the door, and his loft was all set up, he had lots of liquor and
beautiful boys I’d never seen before. And Chris Makos came and he just got
a free camera from Polaroid so he was getting all the kids to do funny
things, taking off their shirts and posing. And there was a drag queen there,
a former Cockette named I think Jumpin’ Jack and he had about 18 pounds
of tit. And Diana Vreeland came with Barry Landau and Bill Boggs and
Lucie Arnaz. They’d just seen the Mary Martin show. Larissa was there and
Edwige. Edwige was unhappy because she came to New York to see Patti
Hansen, who wouldn’t see her again, so at the party Edwige put a four-inch
cut in an X on the back of her wrist—later Victor found blood in his
apartment.
And then, my dear, it was like a story-book fairy tale. Halston arrived in
white, with Bianca on his arm in white fur, with Dr. Giller in white, in a
white limo, with a white driver.
Saturday, January 7, 1978
The maid at Halston’s said Bianca was still upstairs asleep but that I could
go up there. I woke Bianca up and she jumped up and put her clothes on
over her pajamas, and that’s when I realized that Bianca doesn’t really take
drugs—just a few poppers and maybe some coke once in a while, but
otherwise she’s not on drugs, she’s normal.
Sunday, January 8, 1978
Got to Madison Square Garden for the tennis matches. The photographers
were snapping, and Bianca told Jade to put her hands over her face, which
is really funny, that Bianca has her trained, and Jade said, “But you have
your picture taken, Mommy.” Bianca just wants all the attention for herself.
The match was Connors against Borg. Connors won.
I read The New York Times at Halston’s, he was at the office. Someone
called Bianca and she was on the phone for an hour talking about her
problems and I wished I’d listened or taped, but I was just reading. For the
first half-hour she was talking about someone who she said was using her in
London just to get their picture in the papers—she’s so funny, because that’s
all she ever wants herself—and then the other half-hour she was talking
about what a stupid blonde Jerry Hall is. I think she’s really worried that
she’s getting her permanent walking papers from Mick. While Bianca was
on the phone Jade asked me for candy and I gave her some M&Ms and then
she said, “You’ve got to give me my supply for the night.” So I gave her a
few and she said, “You’ve got to give me some more, we’ll go to the
bathroom,” and I told her that her mother would think it was strange if we
went all the way to an upstairs bathroom and she said, “Well, come under
the stairs, then.” I slipped the M&Ms to her and she took them like drugs.
Monday, January 9, 1978
Worked a little at the office with Rupert and then with Alex Heinrici. I’m
still using Heinrici to print screens but I’m giving more and more work to
Rupert. Cabbed up through the snow. The whole ride was long and hard
($10).
Liza had sent six tickets for Bianca who wanted to see The Act. Bianca
disinvited Victor because she wanted to invite Stevie Rubell and her
dancing teacher who was in from London. Bianca kept calling Stevie but
she couldn’t get him. It came out later on that Bianca only wanted to go
because she’d heard Jackie O. would be there and she wanted to get
photographed.
Jed and I went over to Bianca’s, thinking she’d have a car, but she
didn’t. Jade was coming, too. When we got to the theater, everyone was
staring, looking around for Jackie O. The Act was good again. Bianca was
putting it down, but toward the end when she knew we’d have to go see
Liza she started putting it up, saying it was great. Jade had to pee. Jackie
and Swifty Lazar and Jack Haley and Bianca all had their pictures taken and
everyone was staring while they did. And afterwards we went backstage to
see Liza. I pointed my tape recorder in Jackie’s direction and I hope I got a
little breathy talk (tickets $60).
Then we cabbed back to Halston’s ($3) and when we got there, he was
just going to bed. You could see he was really ready to go to bed, he had
Linda in his arms and everything. Linda’s his dog. Then Bianca got on the
phone and made calls to find out who was where, who was at the Ice
Palace, who was at Elaine’s, and then we went up to Elaine’s (cab $2.75).
After the show Liza’s group had gone to “21,” and Bianca was calling
there leaving messages about I guess coke—calling it “the book.” Like, “I
haven’t got the book for her yet.”
Halston hadn’t dressed Bianca before she went out so she looked really
awful when we went to the theater, but nobody had wanted to tell her. But
when we got back to Halston’s he finally told her how terrible she looked.
He had her take off the turban and put on dark lipstick, and then she looked
good. But then she realized how bad she’d looked for the photographers at
the theater. Jade was wearing a long dress.
Then Peter Beard came in with a guy who had a beautiful glove on and a
bottle of coke in the other hand, and then later he showed us his hand which
was a stump, it looked like in the movies when they show the fiendish
ghoul—he lost it in a plane crash, his third plane crash, a DC-10 that he
owns. He passed the bottle of coke around (dinner $130.38, tip $20).
Then we went to the Ice Palace (cab $3) and it wasn’t so crowded, just a
few hustlers, and then around 3:00 Jed and I slipped out.
Tuesday, January 10, 1978
I walked over to Halston’s and when I got there Jane Rose, Mick’s
secretary, was there and she was calling Mick so that he could sing to Jade
before bedtime. Then we tried to get Fred on the line but it was busy for
four hours. I wanted him to come out with us because I wanted to be able to
duck out early.
Bianca was telling her side of the marriage story. At first she was saying
that she never cheated on Mick, but then she said he was splitting from her
because she had so many affairs—she had one with some guy named
Llewellyn and now she’s having one with Mark Shand. But she said she
never flaunted it publicly. She told me that she wanted to be somebody on
her own, and that she’d always wanted to make it on her own so that
(laughs) she could buy any waiter. She said she’s giving Mick his divorce
and I told her that they shouldn’t break up. She said she and Mick hit rock
bottom, that she can’t go to bed with him because she just doesn’t think he’s
attractive. And she said Mick was “rude,” putting her down recently, she
said she’s never put him down. She said she couldn’t be “free”—like a free
spirit—with Mick because of who he was, and she was a nobody. And she
talked about her trip to Hollywood coming up and she talked in that lub-
luh-luh voice about her “role” in this movie with Tony Curtis and Lionel
Stander and Gloria Grahame. She said they were rewriting the part for her,
that she’d told them certain things she wanted. It takes place in Costa Rica.
And she’s scared because “the Critics are waiting to tear me down.” And I
don’t know if she can do it. I mean, she tells me she can dance, too, and
then last night I made a point to watch her and she’s no Rita Hayworth,
she’s no Rita Hayworth.
She was happy because the Daily News finally ran the pictures of her
with Liza and Jackie O. from the night before at The Act in it (cab to Studio
54 $3.50).
I’d given some beads to Jade earlier, and Bianca was saying that now
this breakup is taking its toll on Jade, but Jade looks okay to me. Bianca is
such a tease, she’s always going after guys and getting them all excited,
giving them her phone number and then when they call not doing anything.
Wednesday, January 11, 1978
Paulette called a few times to say not to be late. I dropped off Catherine and
Fred ($5) and picked her up at the Ritz Towers at 8:15 (cab $1.50). I asked
her where the new Halston she bought was, and she said, “I brought it back,
it made me look too fat.” She was wearing the dress that looks good on her,
the YSL, and she had on her rubies, about a million dollars around her neck
—I know, because I saw a stone like that that wasn’t even as good and it
was a million.
We drove to the Waldorf Towers and the driver went around the other
way to avoid the anti-Iranian demonstrators. Some creep asked us what I
thought about the torture in Iran and Paulette said, “Listen, Valerian Rybar
is torturing me here in New York.” He’s still decorating her apartment, she
was complaining that it’s been a year.
The du Pont lady and Paul Jenkins were there, they’d just stepped off the
Concorde. “Suzy” was there, and her apartment is also being done by
Valerian Rybar and she told Paulette not to take it personally—that he’d
been doing her place for two and a half years. I told “Suzy” I loved her
column that day because there was so much dirt in it about Mick and
Bianca, and how Mick has left Jerry Hall, and about Liza and Baryshnikov
and Scorsese. Hoveyda and Zahedi were there, Barbara Walters was there
with Roone Arledge. I was so excited to meet Roone, we talked about Art
Buchwald. And Mayor Koch was there with Bess Myerson, and she’s really
tall and handsome and he’s about the same height. And Governor Carey
walked by and I said hello to him a couple of times but he didn’t say
anything, he was with the Ford girl. And Beverly Sills was there, she’s tall,
too. This was a thing for “artists” and tomorrow the queen is opening an
Iranian exhibit at Asia House. Shirley MacLaine said hello to me a few
times. And Mollie Parnis was there, and Jerzy Kosinski.
Then they started the speeches. Zahedi, then the—empress, the queen.
Then Koch, then Carey, then Kissinger—and he talked for almost forty-five
minutes, so long-winded. They flew in violets for the ladies, and the caviar
was called Pearls of the Caspian Sea and Paulette had about a pound. It was
white and not too salty. The violinist from Lester Lanin asked for Paulette’s
autograph. Paulette wanted to leave so we did and she said she’d go out of
her way to drop me at the door, it was so cold. I mean, you know it’s cold
when Paulette gets considerate.
Thursday, January 12, 1978
Interviewed Lucie Arnaz at Quo Vadis, and it was nothing really startling.
She’s so tall, she eats everything, she’s a little fat and she was wearing jeans
so she looked fatter, but she has a beautiful face. We brought up Jim Bailey
the female impersonator and Burt Reynolds. She dated both of them. She
said Burt was sweet and devoted. These girls are brought up strict, they
think you shouldn’t put out.
Went uptown ($6) to pick Catherine up at 7:50 and walked over to the
Copa for the Bette Midler opening that Mica Ertegun sent tickets for. Ron
Galella was there and he had his own camera crew—a TV thing was being
done on him. It was the same Mafia-type people at the Copa like when we
had our party there last year. Richard Turley was standing in the doorway
and he asked if he could try to slip in with me, and I didn’t know what to
say, I said he could do whatever he wanted to but that it was Mafia and that
he’d never make it, and he didn’t. Chessy Rayner was there, and Peter Tufo
and Lee Radziwill were there together but she was at a different table from
him, and I’ll get to that in a second.
I couldn’t see anything, just the top two inches of Bette’s head when she
finally came out. And Catherine was sitting so that she faced Peter Tufo and
pretty soon I felt his leg rubbing against mine and I guess he thought it was
Catherine. They were really flirting hot and heavy, and he said to her, “Why
don’t you get up on the table and boogie?” and I was surprised because he’s
usually so sour. He was yelling things like (laughs) “Colored sounds!” at
the black girls singing.
I kept hitting Catherine to turn around and look at the show, but she was
telling about going to Plato’s Retreat the night before. She said she didn’t
know if she’d been penetrated or not while she was there, and hearing this
got Peter Tufo hotter, and she spilled a drink on his pants, but that just made
him hotter, too, and he slipped her a note that I found out later said just
“When?” and all I could think was that it was a repeat of our friend Barbara
Allen taking Peter Beard away from Lee, and now here our friend Catherine
was stealing Peter Tufo.
I just wanted to run out, it’s a firetrap there, I hate to be in places like
that. And then everybody left, Catherine went back inside to get the
“When?” note and we got separated, and she went over to Quo Vadis in the
Erteguns’ limo, and I walked over and when I was walking in Lee and Peter
Tufo were fighting, but Lee stopped fighting to wish me Happy New Year
with a kiss. We were at Ahmet’s table. Dinner was a little pigeon. Lee left
first and I thought Peter Tufo would stay for Catherine, but he left with Lee,
so Catherine was safe. And Ahmet was loading up with cognac and being
funny. And afterwards we were all invited up to the Cotton Club, which
they were reopening with Cab Calloway in Harlem, and Catherine and Mica
and Ahmet wanted to go, but I don’t think anybody else really did. I walked
Catherine home, and it was early.
Also today, got back my photographs of Edwige cutting her wrists at
Victor’s party the other night, and Victor said that her scars would be punk
jewelry.
And Bob met today with the Rums of Puerto Rico guy from Kenyon &
Eckhardt and the guy who’s from something like the Puerto Rican Chamber
of Commerce, and they want to have a party at the office to unveil the Liza
portrait I’m doing because Liza’s endorsing Rums of Puerto Rico, and so
they’re giving Interview three months of rum ads. They’re trying to get Burt
Reynolds for this campaign, and I’d be doing his portrait, too, but the two
people he wants to be in the ad with him, the agency didn’t think they were
“cosmetically right.” So Bob called Burt’s manager in L.A. and had to ask
if they could submit some other possibilities, and the manager said, “Listen,
Burt’s endorsement is worth a million dollars and he’s only even
considering it because he wants a Warhol portrait, and if Burt sent a midget
and a dwarf over to be in the ad with him, Rums of Puerto Rico and their ad
agency should be thrilled.” And Bob said the people Burt wants aren’t even
bad-looking anyway.
Friday, January 13, 1978
Lunch for Bloomingdale’s at the office. It was a big thing that Mr. Traub
himself came down. And Cal, the friend of Robert Hayes’s who was at
Bonwit’s and gave us ads there, is now at Bloomingdale’s. Bob gave a big
impressive speech about Interview, and then he turned to Carole Rogers,
Interview’s associate publisher, and said, “Carole, could you give us some
statistics, please?” waiting for her to reinforce the figures that he’d given—
that Interview’s circulation is 80,000 and that 20 percent of that is
subscriptions—but instead she said, “Our subscriptions are 7,000,” and
everyone turned red and gasped, and Bob couldn’t believe it. Afterwards
Cal called and said that was the first thing Mr. Traub brought up in the car
after they left, so that might have blown it, but they’ll give Interview
something because they do think it reaches the right people. All the
Bloomingdale’s people were in blue suits.
Saturday, January 14, 1978
Went to a screening of The Leopard that Suzie Frankfurt was having at her
house. Victor was there with a really good-looking little seventeen-year-old
high school kid from New Jersey, all-American Happy Days type of good
looks, and I was thinking how can he come to New York and do things like
meet me, and know Victor, and go to the Ramrod and come to Suzie’s for a
screening of The Leopard, and then go back and sit all day in high school.
Monday, January 16, 1978
We found out Andrea Portago is marrying Mick Flick this weekend in
Switzerland. And then Barbara Allen came by with Lacey Neuhaus. Barbara
was just back from Acapulco, and she was very tanned. When she heard the
news about Mick Flick and Andrea, she tried not to look shocked—she
recovered in a second and said, “I only had one date with him and he was so
boring that I left before the espresso.”
At around 4:00 Margaret Trudeau arrived, and Marc Balet and Robert
Hayes took her to be photographed. Arranged to meet her at 9:00 at Quo
Vadis. Worked until around 8:00, then dropped off Catherine (cab $4).
Went home, glued, and then walked over to Quo Vadis to meet Bob and
Margaret Trudeau. She did a really great interview. She had five margaritas.
Her family sounds like Viva’s, she has a lot of sisters, too, but then she’s
more intelligent and more beautiful than Viva and her family, because she’s
not so crazy. She hitchhiked in 1969 in Morocco. And she had us turn off
the tape and she told us that she sat next to Nixon at dinner and he didn’t
talk to her the whole time until he turned around and told her about the sex
life of a panda, and that was it.
Margaret was wearing a new designer’s dress. She said she was just on
the list of the worst-dressed women in the world. She told us that wherever
she goes, no matter who else is around, the photographers always go after
her and keep snapping. Then we went over to Studio 54 for Scavullo’s
birthday party and it was true (cab $3.25). Margaret was dancing and the
cameramen went crazy. Stevie had said there would only be one
photographer, but there were twenty to fifty. When they brought in the
birthday cake, which was in the shape of a camera for Scavullo, they didn’t
even notice the cake—they were still going after Margaret.
Tuesday, January 17, 1978
We went to the Vincis’ dinner for Lina Wertmuller at the Italian embassy.
She coughed all over me and then said she was just getting over the flu. But
I found that lady Cappy Badrutt and she was fun—I really like her, she’s so
beautiful, like an elegant courtesan. She told me about some of her affairs.
When I left Bob stayed on so Fred dropped me off.
Wednesday, January 18, 1978
John Chamberlain and his new wife Lorraine came to the office for lunch.
She’s really pretty, a lot younger than he is. He said he was tired of living in
lofts—he’s looking for a small apartment in the Dakota. He’s still doing the
same sculpture things, but they still look great—the car crashes—and
people are still buying them. I did some photographs of him and his wife.
Thursday, January 19, 1978
Went to the auction of Joan Crawford’s costume jewelry. Saw PH there
bidding on a huge pink necklace and when it went over her limit she
dropped out, but then I bid some more and got it and gave it to her. She was
so grateful she took me down to the Village to Sixth Avenue near Waverly
and showed me a secret store she’d discovered on the second floor where a
man sells all the Diors and Balenciagas that belonged to his sister who’s
now dead. It was the greatest place and I bought about five dresses.
Everything there is size 14, though, because the sister was fat. The store is
called Fabulous Fashions, and it has hats and handbags and umbrellas, too,
and it’s all cheap.
I went home to change for dinner, but I forgot that Sandra Payson—you
know, Lady Weidenfeld—had told me it was black tie. So I glued myself
and went over there. Cabbed to Sutton Place ($2.25). It was a small dinner
party and when I saw I was the only one not in black tie, that’s when I
remembered that she had mentioned it. When they saw how bad I looked
everybody ran away from me and they didn’t come back until they were
drunk. I was trying to make it better with conversation, so I just started
telling them about how I was buying lots of dresses now, and they just
backed away. And Mrs. Payson invited me, I think, because she wanted a
painting, but she never mentioned a thing about it so I guess she was so
shocked by my clothes that she decided against it.
The party was for a ballerina whose name I forget, but who was the big
ballerina at the same time Margot Fonteyn was—not a Russian, though. She
told me about every cat she’d ever had and how each one died. She had a
Siamese who jumped onto a ledge and then fell five stories, and she said
she could still see the claw marks that it left on the ledge, and that was sad
—it tried to turn around and it slipped.
Friday, January 20, 1978
This was the morning of the big blizzard that had started the evening
before. Biggest snowstorm since ‘69.
Down at the office I looked out the window and for about an hour a
black man was trying to get his car unstuck. He went down into the subway
and came back with a shovel and he tried to dig himself out, and whenever
he’d get back into the car to try it he’d take the shovel inside with him—I
guess so it wouldn’t get stolen. After an hour, a bigger Negro guy with a
bigger shovel walked by but he didn’t help him. McDonald’s closed early.
Chemical Bank closed at 1:00.
Saturday, January 21, 1978
Cabbed over to Studio 54, and then when we got there, the place was
packed. Ken Norton was there. It was jumping for a snowy night, Stevie
couldn’t believe that so many people came out in the blizzard for it, he was
turning away people at the door as usual. Then we wanted to go down to a
place called Christy’s Restaurant on West 11th Street where there was a
Saturday Night Live party for Steve Martin. We went outside to try to get a
cab but we couldn’t. Then along came a white guy and a black girl in a car
who offered us a ride anywhere we wanted to go, and we took it. They said
that Stevie wouldn’t let them in to Studio 54 because they didn’t look right,
but they looked okay to me—I mean, he looked like a fairy and she looked
like a drag queen, it was the Studio 54 look. As we were going along
Catherine looked out the window and said wasn’t that Lou Reed on the
street, and it was. He was with a Chinese chick, and they got in and he was
very friendly. When we got to Christy’s, Steve Martin was great, he seemed
thrilled to meet me.
Sunday, January 22, 1978
Sam Beard was giving a fortieth birthday party for his brother Peter in his
apartment on 92nd and Park. It was an exciting party. Jackie O. and
Caroline were there. Caroline asked me what I thought of totalitarianism
and I couldn’t pronounce it so I tried to joke about it and she said, “No, I’m
serious.” Mary Hemingway was there, and Jonas Mekas filmed her being a
lion attacking Peter Beard.
Fred was there with Lacey Neuhaus and Stevie Rubell was there. Victor
arrived in a torn T-shirt with spurs on his arms, with a present for Peter—it
was something that looked like he might have found in the street or maybe
used in Halston’s display window, like a part of a machine. And he had a
present for me, too—a used jockstrap. It was great. Barbara Allen was there
with Philip Niarchos, he’s in town. Ronnie and Gigi and Walter Steding
were also there, and Jennifer Jakobson who doesn’t seem to be with
François de Menil anymore. And Steve Aronson. He’s a real charmer, he
speaks so beautifully and wears those great clothes. Peter was very happy
because all of his old girlfriends were in one room.
Then we all went over to Studio 54, and they had an elephant cake for
Peter come down from the ceiling because Peter took all those great African
elephant pictures. Arnold Schwarzenegger was there. I left around 2:00 just
as Halston and Bianca were coming in. They were both in elephant masks,
but the photographers didn’t care, they’re tired of Bianca. She better get out
of town for a while.
Tuesday, January 24, 1978
Suzie Frankfurt called and said her facelift was very painful.
Since it was nice weather I walked down to work. Victor called and said
that he’d done “something terrible” but wouldn’t say what it was on the
phone, that he would come over (lunch for Victor $5.29). But he still
wouldn’t tell what he did. Later when I was talking to Bianca I got it out of
her, so I called him up and said, “Gee, Victor, I had a dream last night that
you were painting on top of my painting. Isn’t that crazy?” And he started to
freak out that I really had dreamed it, and then I said not to worry, that I
knew what he’d done and that I’d give him another one.
Later that night at Studio 54 there were two little kids from Caracas
there, and Victor got jealous when I was talking to them, and they knew
exactly where Victor was from when they heard him talk—it turns out
Victor has the “Brooklyn accent” of Caracas.
Philip Niarchos arrived with Manuela Papatakis. Bianca was thrilled that
Barbara and Philip seem to have broken up.
Wednesday, January 25, 1978
When I walked into the office, the lunch for Carole Bouquet, the beautiful
French actress, was going on, but she wasn’t there because she was still
filming her movie. Peter Beard was there, though, and Mona, and it was
half from William Poll, half Brownies. The cute guy with the burned hand,
Peter’s friend Tom Sullivan, was there. We liked his boots so he asked us
our sizes and called this place in Georgia to send three pairs up. He’s been
living in a suite at the Westbury for months waiting to have skin grafts on
the hand he burned in his plane crash. I think Catherine has a crush on him.
Worked on some paintings in the back. I’m really tired, though, I’m not
getting enough sleep. Bianca stopped by and five minutes later Mark Shand
did. And Brigid told me, “All day long Lady Isabella Lambton picks her
nose and eats it, and if you say something to her about it, she just laughs
and goes right on doing it. She told me that at night she and her boyfriend
pick each other’s noses. It’s hard to take.”
Went up to the Olympic Tower to see Halston’s new offices (cab $3). It’s
on two floors and it looks out on St. Patrick’s steeple. We had some drinks.
We dropped Catherine off and she didn’t have any shoes on so Peter’s cute
friend carried her up six flights.
Thursday, January 26, 1978
When I called Catherine at home in the morning before I left a man
answered and said she’d already left for work, and it was Tom Sullivan
from the day before. He said he was just there dropping something off. He
shouldn’t have answered the phone. When I told Catherine later that he had,
she said, “Well, you got me,” and she was slightly embarrassed.
The boots arrived at the airport and Peter Beard brought them down.
Mine fit perfectly, I’d told Tom to get me 8-D—the only thing wrong was
that I had said round toe and they came with the pointy toe. And they’d all
come in a big box and Peter had taken the shoes out of the box because it
was so big, and thrown the box away, and then we found out that one of
Catherine’s pair was still in the box, and so Tom’s driver went back uptown
looking for where they’d thrown out the box, and he did come back with it,
so Catherine was thrilled. They’re cowboy boots made out of elephant ears.
Lunch for Isabella Rossellini (supplies $7.13, $16.41). John Richardson
was there and gave me a present of a picture of his cock. Bianca was
wearing white with a purple Halston stole and she and Tom Sullivan, Brigid
said, “were practically fucking against the wall, it was really disgusting”—
and Isabella Rossellini, Robin West, and Claus von Bulow were there.
Dinner was at Bianca-at-Halston’s, it was veal blanquettes. Diana Vreeland
was there with Fred, and Stevie is so funny, he said to me she was
“fascinating,” and then later in the evening he said she was so boring he
didn’t know how to get rid of her. And you know, I’ve come to realize lately
that Diana Vreeland is just a person. I realized it a few months ago when I
was thinking again about the thing in the sixties with Viva at Vogue, when
Diana killed the pages on Viva that would have made Viva’s career. Diana
does do things for her “career”—she listens to people who tell her if
something’s a bad thing to do, if she’d suffer professionally, and then she
does what they tell her. Somebody must have told her that if she ran the
Viva photos it would be a bad thing for her. You think that she doesn’t think
that way because she’s Diana Vreeland, but then you suddenly realize that
she does.
Friday, January 27, 1978
Went over to Halston’s. The Halston crowd coordinate themselves, they talk
to each other and decide what color themes are on for the evening. It was
back to black and red this night. Pat Mori the model was there in black and
red, and Halston had his red socks on with his regular black and white.
We went over in the limo to Studio 54. I was there until around 6:00 in
the morning but all I remember is Catherine and her new boyfriend Tom
Sullivan who I do think is a coke dealer. Bianca said she got a movie part
opposite Jeff Bridges.
Saturday, January 28, 1978
Picked up Bianca and went over to the Dakota for Susan and Gil Shiva’s
party ($2.50). Lina Wertmuller and her husband, Enrico Job, were the
guests of honor. He was the production designer on our movies
Frankenstein and Dracula. Her movie A Night Full of Rain with Giancarlo
Giannini and Candy Bergen is opening. Neil Sedaka was there. People kept
bringing Woody Allen over to meet me so I met him four times. And Betty
Bacall was there, she lives in the Dakota, too. And Judy Klemesrud the nice
girl from the Times was there, and that Nancy Collins, the one who used to
be at Women’s Wear who’s now in Washington, and Candy Bergen was
there. Also at Gil Shiva’s, Andrea Portago and Mick Hick, back in town
after their wedding, and Bianca said, “He wanted to make me at Studio 54
last night, he attacks me now that he’s married—he never attacked me
before.”
Then we left for Studio 54. Catherine was there with Tom Sullivan, and
they were going to the Brasserie for cheeseburgers and invited me, and so I
went.
Forgot to say the most exciting thing about the evening, When we left
the Shivas, Bianca wanted to stop back at Halston’s to pick something up.
When we got there, there was a pretty boy in a fur coat standing outside,
and when we walked in, there was Liza Minnelli talking to Halston. She
wanted to know if she and Baryshnikov—it was him outside—could spend
some time at his place. So we weren’t supposed to see this. And Liza and
Baryshnikov were taking so much cocaine, I didn’t know they took so
much, just shoveling it in, and it was so exciting to see two really famous
people right there in front of you taking drugs, about to go make it with
each other.
Liza is just back from the rest cure in Texas, and she’s going to start
doing The Act again.
Sunday, January 29, 1978
Barbara Allen called and she wanted me to take her to the New York Film
Critics dinner, and she sounded down in the dumps. She told me that it’s
really getting to her that Philip and Manuela are around. Everybody’s
calling Barbara and saying, “We’re inviting Philip and Manuela—do you
still want to be invited?” She’s unhappy.
At 8:30 I went over to Halston’s. Bianca was wandering around with her
tits showing. Mark Shand’s left town.
We cabbed up to the Iranian embassy ($2.50). Maximilian Schell was
there and he’d gotten a supporting role award for Julia. I had never met him
before and I was disappointed that he was fat, but he was really sweet. He
said that I did great things for him in Germany, that he’d seen Flesh and
hated it and then gone back to see it again and again and loved it, and that
he thought, If this is a movie, then I can make a movie, too. I didn’t know
what to say, so I decided to give him Bianca, and they went crazy over each
other from then on. I’d always heard he was a fag, but the way they were
carrying on, that image was fading. And Sissy Spacek introduced me to her
husband, he was very nice, and Bella Abzug’s campaigner—what’s her
name? Shirley MacLaine told me she had the picture I did of Bella on her
bureau. And John Simon was there, he was intrigued by Bianca. She had
her hair in big pincurls that she said was a Nicaraguan style, but it looked
Puerto Rican. S.J. Perelman was there and I wanted to talk to him because
Nelson always said he’s the funniest man in the world, but I didn’t.
Bianca came running over and told me that for the first time she’d fallen
for an older man. She said she had to leave, that she had to go home and
cook a dinner for Halston, and I guess I laughed out loud because I
remembered when Amanda Lear told me that the reason Mick’s left Bianca
is that she never made him a meal. When she’s after somebody, though,
she’s a real coquette, out to prove she can do all the things. So we went
back to Halston’s. Maximilian let his car go, I guess he was cheap.
Stevie called and said come to the club. Victor and I had a feast in the
kitchen—we made popcorn and I had orange juice and vodka. We left
Bianca and Maximilian hugging and kissing in the other room. Halston took
Linda and went to bed. Then we went over to Studio 54 and it was jumping.
Monday, January 30, 1978
I was supposed to interview Fran Lebowitz on her new book at lunch but
Bob said that she couldn’t have her regular column plus an interview, too,
in the same issue, so Fran got upset and cancelled.
Catherine got a call from Tom Beard and Joel McCleary inviting us to a
dinner they were having at Elaine’s with Bill Graham, formerly of the
Fillmore, who gave us—gave the Velvet Underground—our first big break
in the sixties but then kicked us out.
Dinner wasn’t until 9:30, and Catherine’s been out so late, she falls
asleep all day, so she wasn’t ready until 10:00 and I picked her up. She was
packing her tote bag to go over to the Westbury because Tom Sullivan is out
of town and told her she could stay there and order room service, so all she
could think about was sausages and eggs in the morning. He left her a
limousine, too. She’s really in love with him. She wears his clothes, his
Valentino coat and leather jacket. She said his father died when he was very
young and left a lot of money, that he’d made a lot of money on a radiator
part (cab to Elaine’s $2.60).
There were a lot of famous people there that I knew, but I didn’t go to
say hello—Candy Bergen, Joel Schumacher. Fred was already with the
Carter people—Tom Beard and Joel McCleary. Bill Graham and I got right
to the central incident of our relationship—him kicking the Velvets off the
bill at his San Francisco Fillmore in I guess ‘66—and it finally came out
after all these years that what made him really hate us wasn’t the Velvets’
music—it was that he saw Paul eating a tangerine and throwing the peels on
the floor of the theater! (laughs) Can you believe how long it takes to get
the real story? So then everyone at the table thought we hated Bill Graham
and didn’t talk to him—Bobby Zarem was there, too, with us, and he’s
getting fatter and fatter—but it wasn’t that we were mad, I was just dead
tired. But they thought there was “tension at the table.” Dropped Catherine
at the Westbury ($3).
Tuesday, January 31, 1978
Rupert was at the office. Maximilian Schell came by and the minute he
walked in the door Brigid immediately asked him for five autographs and
Catherine asked for eight, then Chris Makos was snapping away, too, and
poor Max was bombarded. They did need one picture, though, to go with
the interview we were doing. He was calling a girl to meet him down at
One Fifth.
At dinner at “21,” Jody Powell was with a girl. The whole idea of the
dinner was to interview Joel McCleary, but then my tape recorder was
doing funny things. I sat next to a girl, Lynn, who said she and Joel were
first sweethearts but that they never got married because he was a hippie
and she was a Marxist. It was fascinating to see two hippies who couldn’t
make it because they were different kinds of hippies. She said that Joel used
to be so skinny, but now he’s gotten fat, but that fat was better for politics,
that it was better to see a big hunk of man up there. She said her guru told
her that if you’re a man and you’re thin, then you turn homosexual, and I’m
thinking I agree with that because of all the models. She said she and Joel
meet once a year and tell each other off. So I guess people do do that. I told
her that was what the couple does in that Broadway play Same Time Next
Year.
Lynn said she’s involved with that Pillsbury guy’s foundation, but when
I asked her for money she said she’s only able to give it (laughs) to “people
in New England.”
Wednesday, February 1, 1978
Victor picked me up and we went to Chinatown. I hadn’t been there for
years. I still think they have the one kitchen in the back of Chinatown with
the one big pot that they all dip into. We ate at some dump on Canal Street.
We went to a lot of Chinese stores, and one Chinese girl recognized me.
Then we took the limo to the Spring Street Bar and had drinks ($6) and I
realized we should have come there for hamburgers, that would have been
the better thing.
We stopped in at the O K Harris gallery and Ivan had just put a new
show up and it was really crowded. Then we went around the corner
costume-hunting to a store where a boy who was a camp sold $2,000 capes
made out of gold thread. Then we went over to Fabulous Fashions.
Victor thought it was the most fabulous place I’d ever taken him. He
bought things for Halston there. And then after Fabulous, he dropped me off
at the office because I had to meet the Hoveydas there, they were bringing a
famous Iranian and his wife down and then we were all going down to
Ballato’s. Mr. and Mrs. Ghaferi.
Ballato’s was very exciting because John and Yoko Lennon and Peter
Boyle and his new I think wife were there. Catherine asked John for his
autograph and he said no, because he said he just read that Robert Redford
doesn’t give autographs, so he wouldn’t either. And Calvin Klein was there
with that girl who gave me my first job at The New York Times—Carrie
Donovan. The food was really good and Mr. Ballato was there, and I paid
the check with a check and then it was so early, 10:30, but they dropped us
home.
Oh, and in the middle of dinner I told Catherine how Brigid and Chris
Hemphill were both refusing to transcribe any more of the interviews that
she does because they said they were so bad, and I told Bob he’d have to
straighten it out. And later he told me he doesn’t know what to do, because
on the one hand Catherine’s interviews are really bad—I mean, she asked
where the Bronx was in one of her interviews, and then even left it in the
article because she thought that was “fascinating”—but on the other hand
Brigid and Chris shouldn’t be allowed to decide what they’ll transcribe.
And at dinner the Iranians told me that when I paint the Shah to go easy
on the eye shadow and lipstick. They said, “Keep it casual but
conservative.”
Thursday, February 2, 1978
When I got to the office, Brigid was still embarrassed because Lucio
Amelio, the art dealer from Naples, had arrived earlier for an appointment
with Fred and when he got to the reception desk he stared at her for a long
minute and then said, “Brigid Polk? La actress famosa di Chelsea Girls?”
And Brigid was mortified that now she was a receptionist so she told him
that she’d just appeared in Bad, too. He was so excited, telling the people
with him how famous she was and acting like he’d just met Greta Garbo
and (laughs) poor Brigid had to keep answering phones.
Ran into Robert Mapplethorpe near the office. He told me he has a show
opening in San Francisco and he’s going there for a month for a “sex
vacation” because “San Francisco is the best place for sex in America.”
Went home to change and then went to pick up Barbara Allen to go to a
party at Diane Von Furstenberg’s (cab $2.60). I wasn’t invited—Barbara
invited me as her date. Her ex, Philip Niarchos, was going to be there with
Manuela.
We got to 1060 Fifth Avenue about 9:00, and it was a super party. Diane
has a big apartment, huge, with fabric on the walls. She has a bathroom as
big as a living room. Barry Diller lives there now, too, when he’s in town.
She had wood painted white and then painted wood-grained, like Art
Nouveau. I made a faux pas. I walked into the room where everyone was
eating, and Carl Bernstein was talking to Helen Gurley Brown, and he
looked up and said to me, “Do you think Bob Colacello is attractive?” and I
didn’t know what was going on, and I guess I put my foot in it, I said,
“Well, he’s not my type,” and she got up and walked away. And then he told
me that she’d mistaken him for Bob Colacello, and when he got insulted
she was telling him how attractive Bob Colacello was and I blew it.
Barbara is really unhappy—Bianca’s got herself a movie career and
Manuela has Philip. She had a good long talk at Diane’s with Philip. And
Manuela isn’t good-looking at all.
Barbara said the same thing that Bianca did, that Mick Flick was after
her.
Friday, February 3, 1978
Had to get up early—at 6:30, the sun rises after 7:00—to call Catherine and
tell her I wouldn’t be going to Mardi Gras.
The lunch at the Lachmans’ was at 1:30. Jaquine Lachman wants a
painting but she wants a bargain price. I mean, her husband owns a third of
Revlon! Bob is going to tell her no bargain.
When we got to the Lachman apartment, I could see that Mrs. Lachman
was this French lady who’s really so bored with her husband. His daughter
from another marriage told her father he should paint, so now all he does is
stay home and paint all day. He paints one painting each in the style of
every artist. And he follows his wife around the house, he literally bumps
into her when she stops.
While we were there one of her friends called her and said she was too
tired to go fur-coat shopping. So Jaquine was upset.
Tuesday, February 7, 1978
Catherine called, she’s still down in Tampa with Tom Sullivan.
I think Peter Beard’s in love again, with Carole Bouquet, the girl from
That Obscure Object of Desire, the Buñuel movie that’s out now. He called
and said he was having dinner with her up at Elaine’s and invited me. When
I got there Elaine was jitterbugging with a guy from the bar. Lorna Luft was
there. She said she’s got a part in Grease.
And the Calvin Klein daughter kidnap is still in the papers. He gave an
interview to Eugenia Sheppard about how brave his daughter was when she
was kidnapped. Left around 2:00, dropped Bob (cab $3).
Wednesday, February 8, 1978
Before I left the house my nephew Paulie who’s been in Denver for years
called from New Jersey and said that he was leaving the priesthood and
going to get married. I told him to come by the office in the afternoon and
we’d talk about it.
When I got to the office ($3.60) Bob Colacello and Robert Hayes were
having an important business lunch and so I went to sit in on it because I
knew I was supposed to. But whenever it’s a sort of important lunch, it’s so
stupid in that room, because Brigid will walk into the bathroom or Ronnie
will wander through or someone will come to the door and say, “Barry
Landau is on the phone for you” or “Crazy Matty is here to see you”—they
don’t seem to know what’s important, and so it’s silly in there.
My nephew arrived. He told me that he’d given up his parish in Denver.
You’re still a priest even if you give up your parish, but after he gets
married he’ll be excommunicated. I told him he should see Saturday Night
Fever. Because remember the part where the brother’s leaving the
priesthood? I didn’t know what else to say, he wasn’t listening to me
anyway. He even said, “I’ll just do what I’m going to do anyway, so let’s
not even talk about it.” But then he kept bringing it up. And after 5:00 when
the rates were down he called Denver and had me talk to his Mexican-
American fiancée who’s thirty-seven—older than he is—and she did
actually sound nice.
It was Ash Wednesday.
Thursday, February 9, 1978
Bob called in the morning and said that Suzie Frankfurt was becoming a
Roman Catholic and that she was getting baptized this morning and that we
should go up to the church (cab to 83rd and Park $3). It only took a minute,
Suzie got baptized and her hair got wet, and we went back to her house for
coffee.
Cabbed down to Union Square ($3). Anselmino was calling from Italy
all day, screaming hysterically about forgeries of my paintings that he was
being offered. And my nephew was there all day writing letters and making
phone calls. I worked until about 7:00.
Friday, February 10, 1978
Anselmino called to say, “They weren’t forgeries after all—they were stolen
from me and cut down to a smaller size.” He must have just sold them for
coke once and forgot.
My nephew was at the office again all day making phone calls. He had a
friend with him and Brigid said that he’d been making martinis (laughs) the
new way with gin, scotch, and vermouth. He told me he’s staying with
someone and there’s five people in one room and I guess he’s sleeping on
the floor. I wanted to keep working late, so I told him it would be easier if
he left with Vincent when Vincent locked the door. I think he got mad at me
because he left without finishing his martini.
Saturday, February 11, 1978
Okay, the fire.
I got up in the morning and I thought I smelled a wood-burning
fireplace. I went upstairs and there was no fireplace going and I still
smelled burning so I went up to the room on the fourth floor where two kids
have been working, restoring furniture for Jed’s decorating business. I
opened the door. There was a dropcloth all over the room with a big burned
hole about ten inches across in it, and underneath the hole was a quarter-
inch hole in the floorboards. I started to shake. My biggest fear had
happened. There were open cans of turpentine around, the windows were
closed, and the heat was on. I just don’t know what started it, and I just
don’t know what stopped it. It must have happened while I was asleep
because I didn’t smell anything when I came in. Do you think … ? I mean,
it was like The Exorcist. Should I put a cross up there? I’m going to have a
cross blessed and put it up there. Because in the same room once the whole
ceiling had a flood on one wall, and now this. And then I was thinking that I
was mean to my nephew the priest and that was bothering me. And when I
looked at where the fire had been, right in the center of the room, it was like
to show what would happen … I was absolutely shaking. The dropcloth had
vein lines going out from the hole, and the floor underneath had vein lines.
It was so weird.
Then I spent the whole morning cleaning up. I called Judith Hollander
for the phone number of the boys who were “restoring.” I called them up
and screamed at them to come and get their junk out of there fast, and when
they came I wouldn’t talk to them, I was so angry.
I was so exhausted from this ordeal in the morning with the fire that
after work I just went home and drank some wine so that I’d be able to
sleep and not think about the possessed room upstairs. Remember when
Tom Tryon used to live across the street and I would watch him in his
window writing? Now I’m living a nightmare like one of his stories.
Tuesday, February 14, 1978
I couldn’t believe how many people were out celebrating Valentine’s Day
this year. It was really a celebration, a big holiday. Paulette picked me up to
go over to the “I Love New York” party at Tavern on the Green. Bella
Abzug came in. Today was the election to see if she could win the seat
Mayor Koch vacated. She’s running against Bill Green.
A lady who works for the governor came over and wanted to meet me,
she said she read my Philosophy book and that it’s her favorite book, it’s
her bible. She asked provocative questions about should kids at thirteen see
pornography and what about Roman Polanski, and Stan Dragoti who was
there said that he used to live next door to Roman in Hollywood and that
Roman actually did date eleven-year-olds. We concluded that Roman is
now trying to relive his childhood. He’s is now in Paris where he can’t be
extradited back. There were a lot of empty spaces at our table. Stan Dragoti
is married to Cheryl Tiegs the model. He made it sound like they were
really together, and I had to catch myself every time I started to say
something about Vitas, because his wife Cheryl and Vitas are the hot couple
lately around town, but I didn’t slip.
Picked up Catherine to go over to Vitas’s Valentine’s party at Le Club.
Catherine had her boots on (cab $3). Peter Beard and Tom Sullivan arrived.
Tom and Catherine have a pact that each of them can go anywhere and do
anything with others, and so he was with a ravingly beautiful sixteen-year-
old model and she was (laughs) with me.
Jerry Hall was there and she said that she was looking for a house for
Mick and that she and he were going to live in together for six months. I
think I told that later to a reporter but I don’t care. Nobody likes Jerry Hall,
they think she’s plastic. But I like her. She’s so cute.
We went over to Studio 54 and just everyone was there.
Wednesday, February 15, 1978
Hung over, couldn’t get out of bed.
The Joan Crawford pre-auction exhibit was on from 9-12:00 at the Plaza
Galleries—the second one.
When we got there, they were taking the show down, getting ready for
the auction the next day. The girl at the gallery was wearing one of Joan’s
sweaters. Everything was for sale—there was lawyers’ letters and a
collection of schoolteacher letters, all the things she’d saved. I really ought
to auction off some of my time capsule boxes [see Introduction], that would
be a good thing to do in an art gallery. But I would try to make every box a
little interesting. I’d throw in one of my dresses, or an old shirt, a pair of
underwear—something great in each one. The Negro guys there were rotten
to us, screaming not to touch things, and we left. And Bella Abzug lost to
Bill Green.
We had to go up to Denise Bouché’s for her party for the chairman of
the Guggenheim Museum, her cousin Peter Lawson-Johnston, who’s a
Guggenheim (drinks $20). Bill Copley was there, he was drunk and fun.
When he did that play a few months ago he hired a whore to be in it, and
then he kept her on after the play, at $200 a week, to live in his house on
89th Street. And now she’s taken it over. He once told me he originally
furnished his place so that no woman would ever want to live there—that he
wanted to make it like a bar—he left his ex-wife in their old apartment on
Central Park West. But then the kind of girl he found is the kind of girl who
would like to be in a place that looks like a bar—that’s where a hooker
would feel comfortable, so he picked the right girl. He said he’s starting to
be nervous about her being there, though. She’s taking over and buying him
funny presents and things. But he thinks it’s interesting, but now he’s not so
sure about it. I told him I wanted to tape them fighting, and I wanted to start
this weekend, but I have to go to Dallas. They don’t fight in public, but he’ll
do it for art.
Picked up Diana Vreeland and went to Doubles (cab $2). I talked to
Norman Mailer and his schoolteacher redheaded new girlfriend from
Arkansas. I was at table 9 with Diana and Lee Radziwill and Peter Tufo,
and one of the Toni twins. Bob was next to Gloria Swanson! She has really
grey hair. I told her, “You look so beautiful.” She said, “Say it again.” I
said, “You look so beautiful.” Mrs. Vreeland was fighting with Peter Tufo.
Then she started screaming and belting me, and she really hurts! And she
does the same thing to Fred. She screamed at me, “You should know better
than to OPEN YOUR MOUTH!” I just didn’t know what to do. She beats
you to a pulp. She said that she just couldn’t stand to be around old people,
including herself.
Friday, February 17, 1978
Liza came to the office to have her portrait done. She was a little nervous to
begin with, and then Chris Makos went over and showed her a picture of his
cock that I’d taken, and that made her more nervous, but she was wearing
the right makeup and all the pictures came out good.
John Lennon came by and that was exciting. He’s lost weight. Rupert’s
working on some art thing with him. And he was sweet. He’d refused
Catherine the autograph in the restaurant the other week, but Paul
McCartney’s picture was in the paper the other day, and when she asked
him again he drew a mustache on Paul and signed it.
Meanwhile Catherine had invited two boys she met in the men’s room at
Studio 54 to lunch, brothers from Washington, D.C., who have a rock band
called Star, they’re staying at Bob Feiden of Arista Records’ house. And
they were whispering to each other saying, “Can you believe this? Liza
Minnelli, John Lennon—she calls this work?”
Victor arrived and started screaming at some girl, calling her cheap and
a whore and oh—just—all I can think of is someday he’s going to get mad
at me and it’s going to get crazy.
Monday, February 20, 1978
Monique Van Vooren was having a sit-down dinner at Premiere at 9:30 and
I’d said yes, I forgot that Tom Sullivan had tickets for wrestling because
he’d met Dusty Rhodes the wrestler at an airport and they’d become
friends. Then Fred called and said Camilla McGrath was having a cocktail
party for someone, but I can’t remember who.
Catherine picked me up at 7:00 and we went over to Camilla’s and it
was very exciting there, a whole crowd of people. The Johansen boy, David
Doll, was there, he looked unhappy, I guess it’s still from Cyrinda Foxe
leaving him for the Aerosmith guy. And I met Stephen Graham, the
Washington Post kid, and he was nutty, he was with Jane Wenner, who’d
broken her leg skiing.
Tom picked us up there at 8:30 and we went over to the Garden and
there were like 26,000 people there! I thought wrestling was a dead sport, I
didn’t know so many people went to it. Dusty Rhodes was wrestling a
Japanese guy. They all wear sequins, all of them. I guess they got their style
from Gorgeous George, he really influenced them. And they strip on stage.
Catherine went to take pictures, but the fight was over in eight minutes. And
now they’re getting good-looking wrestlers. Dusty Rhodes said he’d be
right out, but he didn’t come out until about twenty minutes. He wore lots
of jewelry, gold things, and he had dark glasses on but when he took them
off it looked like he still had them on, he had huge dark rings around his
eyes, and he had lots of bruises all over. We took him with us to Monique’s
dinner (wrestling tickets $16).
Then we went to the Lone Star and then they wanted to go dancing. Up
to Hurrah’s. Dusty was a little apprehensive when he saw all the fairies and
he asked for a girl. The owner got a girl from someplace behind us and
fixed him up with her. Then after Hurrah’s we dropped Dusty and the girl at
the Sheraton, and Catherine and Tom picked up hamburgers at the Brasserie
and went to the Westbury. They dropped me off.
Tuesday, February 21, 1978
I went down to the office (cab $3.25).
Brigid was training the new employee, Robyn Geddes, a kid I met at
Studio 54. She told him, “The thing is, when you’re at home, you let the
phone ring twice, and then you answer. But here, you get it on half a ring.
There’s only one thing that Andy expects and that’s that you get five calls a
minute, if it comes to that.” She was making it all up. He asked her if
McDonald’s delivered. He said he was getting his master’s at the New
School and Brigid said, “Oh, so you’re going to school and this is part-
time? Are you a volunteer or will we be paying you?” He said he didn’t
know. His mother is the head of the New York Cancer Society chapter. She
married Amory and they live at the River House.
Thursday, February 23, 1978
Went to Regine’s. Andrea Marcovicci was there. And Tom Sullivan.
Someone was saying that Andrea Marcovicci looked like Margaret Trudeau
and I was saying oh yeah, and then I turned around and there was Margaret
Trudeau, I didn’t know she was there, and Tom said, “I thought you knew.”
And Tom was sad because he couldn’t be with Margaret, she was staying in
the background so she wouldn’t be photographed with him because she’s
still married. But then this photographer guy who was there with a foreign
accent said to Tom that he saw him fucking Margaret in the balcony at
Studio 54 the other night, and the reason he saw them was that he was up
there fucking a girl, himself. And finally Margaret came and she talked to
me so she could be near Tom, and the photographers took pictures. And
Catherine was unhappy because Tom was in love with Margaret.
Friday, February 24, 1978
Robyn, the new kid, said he was going out to his parents’ place in Tuxedo
Park to be a butler for $10 an hour for three hours this weekend, but that he
got an advance so he could go dancing at Studio 54. He was reading the
scrapbook and when he got to ‘68 he couldn’t believe it—he said to me,
“Somebody shot you?”
Roy Cohn’s birthday party was at Studio 54 behind the curtain. We
missed the good heavy Democrats, they’d already gone, like Carmine
DeSapio. There was a big birthday cake for Roy, and Margaret thought it
was a cushion and sat on it, but she got up quickly and nobody seemed to
notice. The cake was about 3’ X 4’. With a face like a 1920 cheap pillow,
you know, like they had then for the World’s Fair. It was in the paper that
the party was costing Stevie $150,000, but I don’t see how it could have,
they were charging people to get in just like always.
Saturday, February 25, 1978
Catherine called and said that Tom would pick me up in his car but I said
I’d rather walk, it was just to Diana Vreeland’s dinner for Cecil Beaton.
When we got there Peter Beard was there in black tie, he said he’d had to
rent it for Friday so he figured why not keep it for the weekend. Carole
Bouquet was with him, she’s leaving for Paris in a week. Then Fred arrived
with Cecil Beaton. Cecil had been staying with Sam Green but that got too
hard so he moved to the Pierre, he was leaving town in the morning. He can
hardly walk, he’s paralyzed on one side. He’d taken photographs of Carole
and signed them for Peter with his left hand, which is great, that’s the hand
he draws with now. He doesn’t talk much, he just said things like “Oh my”
and “Yes.” And I guess Diana looking at him was afraid something like that
would happen to her because she overreacted in the other direction, she was
running and jumping and dancing and humming and pushing forward with
her tight body and her beautiful clothes.
And Consuelo Crespi whose daughter Pilar is married to a Colombian,
Echavarria, was also at Diana’s. Tom knew all about Colombia, so I just
don’t know about him. He said that Pilar’s husband was the biggest
smuggler in Colombia, but what does that mean he smuggles? For sure,
cocaine? Or money? Echavarria owns an airline there, a small one. We were
talking about plane crashes and Tom was telling about his—the one that
wrecked his hand that he wears the glove on, and Consuelo said, “If you
crashed in an airplane, you were probably in Colombia, right?” And he was.
Tom doesn’t seem to take coke too much but I think he was missing
Margaret so he was snorting some. He’s so free with it, it’s not like a dealer,
he gives it away like it’s candy.
The front page of the Post announced Liza’s separation from Jack Haley,
Jr.
Sunday, February 26, 1978
Went to church, then cabbed to work ($4) to meet Rupert. Worked there all
afternoon and took phone calls. Then went home at 7:00.
Tuesday, February 28, 1978
Catherine went to Halston’s to pick up her dress, but later she made me call
him to say that she’d wanted one slinkier, and he’s going to do it. He thinks
I’m paying for it, I guess, but I’m not, Tom Sullivan is.
Cabbed ($4) to the office and arrived for the lunch for Sam Spiegel. Sam
was charming—he was talking about Carole Bouquet and it turns out that
her passport or papers expired. When he sees a pretty face he’ll do
anything, and he called a friend in Immigration.
All afternoon Catherine and Bob were getting the party list together for
that night’s dinner at Reginette for Margaret Trudeau. Catherine was trying
to get O.J. Simpson, but he’d left town.
At 9:00 Catherine, Tom Sullivan, and Margaret picked me up to go to
Regine’s (cab $3.50). When we got there we were so early the
photographers hadn’t even gotten there yet. Margaret was just sitting at the
bar, and if any photographer had come in he would have gotten great
pictures, but they weren’t there.
Studio 54 is making Regine desperate.
Margaret told me how much she loved Tom. And she said that she didn’t
like Tony Portago, she didn’t like his line. And then she told me Tom’s line
and it sounded exactly the same. Tom’s lines were: “I want to thank Pierre
Trudeau for making you such a fascinating woman,” and “Good night, Mrs.
Trudeau.” And Tony, she said, had said, “Margaret Trudeau, can I dance
with you?” And that one she didn’t like. So (laughs) I don’t know. And she
said that when she was up in Canada this weekend the prime minister,
who’s still her husband, said that her interview in Interview was the best
she’s ever done.
Monday, March 6, 1978
Jamie Wyeth called and invited me to dinner at “21.”
Picked up Catherine and went. We had a really great time gossiping
about Jamie’s trip to Europe with Bo Polk and Nureyev. Andrew Stein was
at the next table with his girlfriend. Catherine ordered Guinness and
champagne—a black velvet. Ossie Clark came by. Tom Sullivan arrived just
up from Florida where he’d gone with Margaret Trudeau. She was outside
in the limo.
When we got to Studio 54, I thought it was just going to be about fifteen
or twenty people for Liz Taylor’s party, but it was more like 2,000, so if
Halston was paying, it cost a fortune. It was a good work night for me,
because I saw Mrs. Kaiser—Aly—and she said her face would be okay next
week to have her picture taken, and we talked about the Joan Crawford sale.
Liz looked like a—bellybutton. Like a fat little Kewpie doll. John
Warner said hello to me. Rod Gilbert was with the cutest new hockey
player, a blond, who Catherine fell in love with the other night, and she says
she’s going to try to get him but she doesn’t think she’s going to be able to,
but she’s going to try. He was with a girl with big tits. And Margaret and
Tom didn’t get much fanfare from the photographers, I guess they’re an old
couple by now. And Bianca paid no attention to me at all, but then she
wanted me to dance with her so that it would be the new kind of picture for
the photographers. She was wearing black and white, that’s the current
Halston thing, but she just really doesn’t look good in his clothes. And
Bianca kept telling me to call Chris Wilding over, and then when he came,
she would act like she hadn’t had a thing to do with it, so he’d look at me
and say, “Yes?”—like “What did you want?”—and I didn’t have a thing to
say, and Bianca would act disinterested, and it was just so dumb.
Truman Capote was there and he and Bob were dancing all night and the
photographers were taking pictures. Truman looks so thin. Diana Vreeland
was there, and people were being brought over to Liz—she was the queen. I
met a quarterback.
Bob was watching Bianca take poppers and he said to Diana Vreeland,
“It really becomes more like pagan Rome every day,” and she said, “I
should hope so—isn’t that what we’re after?”
The decorations were fabulous, vases as big as people, filled with
flowers, and they did a tribute to Liz with pictures on the wall.
And Monique was there, and we reminisced about the time I met Liz for
the first time in Rome around the time we were there making Frankenstein
and Dracula.
Tuesday, March 7, 1978
The front page of the Post said that Aly Kaiser was robbed of her jewels last
night after she went home from the Liz Taylor party. I’m so glad I didn’t
talk jewelry with her like I was going to, or I’d be a suspect. But she only
has the best, the simplest and the best. It said the necklace was $500,000.
What I liked best in the article was that they called her “a divorcée.” I
haven’t seen that word in years. I wonder if maybe she was picking the guy
up—I wouldn’t be surprised. Like that night when we all went to her house
and the two Negro kids were with us—Esther Phillips and the guy she was
with—she didn’t just have them because they were with us, I think she had
us because we were with them. But Paulette has to be careful—she’s next,
because rubies are much more in demand now than diamonds.
I want to invent a new kind of fast food, and I was thinking, what about
a waffle thing that had the food on one side and the drink on the other—like
ham and Coke? You could eat and drink at the same time.
Friday, March 10, 1978
Stayed uptown in the morning because I was going to interview Kirk
Douglas at Quo Vadis for lunch. Nicky Haslam was there with Sybil Burton
Christopher, but I didn’t recognize her because she has a different-color hair
now. Kirk Douglas looked good. He was charming, so adorable. Lally
Weymouth came over and she was Kirk’s best friend and he was stroking
her in the lobby. Bobby Zarem surprised us and forked up for the lunch.
Kirk said he wanted to go to Studio 54 that night and asked if we’d call and
leave his name at the door. For the interview Kirk talked about how
Hollywood had at first wanted to putty up his dimple.
After work dropped off Catherine (cab $4) and changed, then we went
all the way down to the Bottom Line (cab $5) to see Lou Reed’s act. There
was a line around the block, but then inside it wasn’t crowded, it was nice.
Ronnie and Gigi and Clive Davis and Bob Feiden were there, and they
wanted to confiscate Catherine’s tape recorder at the door, but she only gave
them the batteries. A girl was on before Lou, and then he was late coming
out, but then he did and I was (laughs) proud of him. For once, finally, he’s
himself, he’s not copying anybody. Finally he’s got his own style. Now
everything he does works, he dances better. Because when John Cale and
Lou were the Velvets, they really had a style, but when Lou went solo he
got bad and was copying people like Mick Jagger. But last night he did his
song “I Want to Be Black”—which never was good before but now it is.
Saturday, March 11, 1978
I had a lot of dates but I decided to stay home and dye my eyebrows.
Sunday, March 12, 1978
Got up and went to church.
Liza’s birthday party was at Halston’s spread in the Olympic Tower.
Catherine was wearing her new Halston, a tight white one, and she looked
really good with her hair up. The party wasn’t that great. It was missing
people. Muhammad Ali never showed up and Liz Taylor didn’t either. But
Carol Channing popped around the corner with Eartha Kitt who she said
was dying to meet me, but then we didn’t have anything to say to each
other. Melba Moore was there. It was a nice party, though, a live band. Jane
Holzer and Bob Denison was there, and a couple of hustlers from Studio 54
who weren’t in black tie, they were in white jumpsuits. Liza was wearing a
gold Halston, and she got upset when Dr. Giller pulled down on it because
she’d just been in the bathroom to fix it to stay up. It was a funny dress,
open from the crotch down to the floor in a V. And the Halston crowd has a
new accent, they’re now all talking in a tongue-tied lisp. It’s the new thing.
And they all say [imitates] “pussycat.” I met David Mahoney who runs
Norton Simon that bought Halston, and Martha Graham took me into a
corner and said she’d like to have tea with me. All the pretty girls were in
Halstons.
Diana Vreeland was there and Truman Capote with Bob MacBride. He’s
the person that was with Truman even back when I did the Rolling Stone
interview with him in 1973. He looks even weirder than ever, there was
always something strange about him. But Truman told me that he couldn’t
go for the young ones, meaning that it had to be this type. Bob MacBride is
still taking notes—even when I first met him with Truman he was taking
notes, but I don’t know what for. He still has the wife and six kids. He’s lost
a lot of weight. Actually, he’s lost everything—he looks strange.
Al Pacino was there and he looked handsome—we’ve heard through the
grapevine that he might be interested in renting Montauk, so we’ll see about
that. De Niro was there, he looked fat, and Scorsese was with them.
Ken Harrison the porno star was at my table. Bianca and Stevie brought
out a big birthday cake and Liza started singing “New York, New York” but
then Sterling St. Jacques went over and joined her singing and (laughs) she
got upset and moved over to another microphone and sang some more. And
then I asked Marty Scorsese if he’d ever met Margaret Trudeau and he said
no, and so I went and got her, I was pushing her as an actress. Marty told
me Julia sends her love. I told him they should get back together and he
said he couldn’t, that they were just friends now. He’s so short. God.
Halston was kissing Liza and Bianca was lost somewhere with Federico De
Laurentiis, and the photographers were photographing and it looked unreal,
like a big movie scene.
Monday, March 13, 1978
The Post had a picture of Halston and Liza and Ken Harrison. But all I
could look at was the way Ken Harrison was holding his glass. Because I
have nude pictures of him with Victor. And Fred said what was wrong with
Halston’s party was that it looked like the funny restaurant that you walk
into when you’re out of town in some city, and you find it on top of a
building—that’s what Halston’s office place looks like, all the mirrors. I
spent most of the party out in the hallway because I couldn’t find Catherine.
Someday somebody is going to walk smack into a mirror there. The mirrors
are what made the party seem so full.
Cabbed down to Chembank ($4) and then walked over to the office
where Mr. and Mrs. Carimati were coming for lunch. Bob is staying longer
at the office these days because Kevin’s out of the picture now, so I dropped
him and Catherine off (cab $3.50). Then Charlotte Ford called me and
invited me to a party for her book at some restaurant on 58th and Third, and
that sounded like work so I invited Bob. The party was at 7:00 but we didn’t
get there until 8:00 (cab $2.50). Charlotte said that it wasn’t actually for her
whole book, just for the part of it that had just come out in the Ladies’
Home Journal. And then a lady came over and said “I’m Mrs. Hershey, and
I used to work at McCall’s, I remember you and your drawings.” And I
asked her what she was doing now and she said, “Listen, I’m giving this
party, I’m the editor-in-chief of Ladies’ Home Journal.” The party was a lot
of squares you never see around. It was black tie and Bob and I were in
black tie, but Tom Armstrong wasn’t, and I’m noticing that a lot of people
don’t come in black tie when it says to, so I’m giving that a lot of thought.
I turned around and there was a beautiful beautiful lady near me, and it
turned out to be Rocky Converse, and Bob was next to her husband. We had
a really really good time, I talked to her and Bob talked to her husband. She
was married to Gary Cooper and she’s the mother of Maria Cooper Janis.
She said she doesn’t believe in the mystic ESP stuff that her daughter does,
though. She said her husband’s had three heart attacks, but that he’s still the
best plastic surgeon in town, and that he was going to die with his boots on.
She said that Pat Buckley told her she should wear her hair pulled back and
she pulled it back and she looked beautiful. It was like looking at Joan
Crawford.
Wednesday, March 15, 1978
Cabbed down to University Place to look around ($3.50). Walked over to
the office, arrived at the same time Rocky Converse did.
Lunch at the office was for her and some other chic people, and Gigi
saw Bob being nice to this older woman, so she decided to pitch in and help
out, thinking that it was someone we were hustling to get their portrait
done. She was giving her all this attention and special treatment and finally
Bob said, “What are you doing? This is my mother.” It was so funny.
Thursday, March 16, 1978
I forgot to say something that Aly Kaiser was telling me when I saw her at
the Joan Crawford auction—that Joan Crawford was madly in love with
her, and that she had mash letters from Joan to prove it. I’ve never heard
that about Joan and it’s hard to believe, but I didn’t want to say that,
because she said, “I’ll show you the love letters, you can see for yourself.”
So I just—maybe she doesn’t know the difference between lesbian and …
Oh, I don’t know. It’s good gossip, that’s all.
Friday, March 17, 1978
The St. Patrick’s Day parade was starting up so the traffic was bad.
Everybody was wearing green and staggering and it was like seeing the old
days of New York when everybody used to be drunk all the time instead of
on drugs, swaying down the street.
And have I said in the Diary yet that we didn’t get a deal for our TV
show? The project Vincent was trying to get a deal for. They didn’t think I
was big enough for Middle America. ABC turned it down.
Sunday, March 19, 1978
Palm Sunday. I went to church, but some lady had gone around and taken
all the palms. Walked down to Laurent on 56th Street for lunch. Chris
Makos was just in a leather jacket and his boyfriend didn’t have a tie, and it
looked like a good restaurant, but they were prepared for Dali’s crowd so
they didn’t care.
Ultra Violet was sitting next to Dali and she did something great—she
wore the exact same outfit as the day we met her in the sixties—a pink
Chanel miniskirt suit with the same boots and her hair the same way. And
she had a bracelet that was a Brillo pad, she said that after she was done
using it as jewelry she would clean her pot with it. And she had another
bracelet made out of eight inches of the corrugated cardboard that they
wrap bottles in, sprayed gold, and glued together. It looked great. I guess
Ultra is creative in a way. She said I told her the last time I saw her that she
should start a new look—“Park Avenue Punk”—and she said that’s what
gave her the idea to do “Christian Punk”—and now she sings the Lord’s
Prayer and puts in the word “asshole” which I think is disgusting. She’s
going to do her act at the Riverboat, and I told her she should start at
CBGB. I’d brought two copies of the Dali book so Dali could sign them and
it turned out that one of them had already been signed “To Fred” so Dali re-
signed it to me. Dali is so full of ideas, and he’s ahead in some things, but
then he’s behind in others. It’s odd. He was telling me about a book that’s
just been written in Paris about a brother and sister who were so in love that
the brother (laughs) ate her shit. He said that my idea of piss-painting was
old-fashioned because it’d been in the movie Teorema which (laughs) is
true, it was. I knew that. And then he said something great—he said that the
punks are the “Shit Children,” because they’re descendents of the beatniks
and the hippies, and he’s right. Isn’t that great? The Shit Children. He is
smart. Dali told me that he was looking for “beautiful freaks” and I told him
(laughs) I’d send him Walter Steding. Walter was performing on his “magic
violin” later that night at Max’s. And Dali was really sweet, he’d brought a
plastic bag full of his used-up palettes as a (laughs) present to me.
And I’ve got to get some holy water for the house. I forgot. They give it
to you free in the church lobby.
Tuesday, March 21, 1978
Bob was working on Truman to host the party that Interview is giving for
Polaroid on the night of the Academy Awards at Studio 54—Truman said
he’d only do it if he didn’t have to do any work, if Polaroid would give him
a movie camera and if he didn’t have any “old bags like Gloria Swanson
there, trading off my name.” He said, “Get me Candy Bergen!”
And Bob showed me a review that Fran Lebowitz’s book got in The New
York Times by John Leonard, and I can’t understand it. Is her writing funny?
Some girl we know gave her a long rave in the Sunday Times, and now
John Leonard and I mean, her stuff—all the put-downs and complaining—
it’s just not my sense of humor. I don’t know what’s the point. So Bob
wanted to prove that other people don’t feel like I do about it, that she’s an
asset to Interview.
Thursday, March 23, 1978
Yesterday I watched the Flying Wallenda on the news fall from the highwire
and get killed. You saw it all—he was walking, and he got to the middle,
and a wind came from Miami, and—he was just—he fell, and then the
cameras went close in, they showed him lying there.
The BMW company wants me to paint the outside of a car—Stella’s
done it and Lichtenstein.
Sunday, March 26, 1978
Easter Sunday. It was raining really hard, cold and windy. I didn’t watch the
Easter parade because there wasn’t any. But television is smart, they
showed Easter parades in England, where the people were doing what
people are supposed to do—walk around in their hats.
Went to church. I took a peanut jar with me to get holy water and I spent
a couple of hours doing that. You go in and you press a button and holy
water comes out and you fill up your jar and take it home. It took another
couple of hours to put it all over the house.
And Nelson called me from L.A. He said that he’d been in the hospital
because on St. Patrick’s Day he and Bobby De Niro started eating a five-
pound cheddar cheese with Jack Daniel’s and day by day that’s all Nelson
was eating until finally he had pains and he went to the hospital and they
said that the cheese had turned to rock and they gave him a laxative to break
it up. He wanted to find out when we were coming out there. In May, I
guess.
Thursday, March 30, 1978
Did I tell about Jay Johnson’s cat dying? He picked her up and she was just
—dead. This was Harriet, the kitten Jane Holzer gave Jade Jagger for
Christmas. Jay felt so bad.
Friday, March 31, 1978—New York—Houston
To Houston for a show of my Athletes portraits at Frederika Hunter and Ian
Glennie’s gallery.
The gallery was big and beautiful, in an old compound, and Ian had
designed its space.
Monday, April 3, 1978—New York
Tom Sullivan came by with Margaret Trudeau in a red dress and we picked
up Catherine and then we went to Studio 54 for the Academy Awards party
that Polaroid was giving, that Truman Capote and I were the hosts of.
I’m never going to let my name be put on a party again because all it
does is get you in trouble with the people you forget to invite or who don’t
get in for some reason. The invitations got all screwed up. I mean, a hand-
delivered invitation from me to myself arrived at the office in the afternoon.
We went upstairs and found Truman sitting on the landing on the couch
and we went to see Mick and Jerry and Diana Vreeland with George Trow
and Margaret and Tom.
Danny Fields was next to me and he had a great idea for a movie like
Saturday Night Fever, about a boy who’s straight but wants to be the best
faggot in town because he sees all the fags having such a good time and he
thinks it would be more fun. It’s the Ronnie Cutrone story.
I hated the Awards, I hated the whole thing. I hated every nominee and I
hated everything that won. I must be really out of it. But nobody good like
John Travolta won. I mean, Richard Dreyfuss? I mean, if he’s a sex symbol,
I don’t know what the world is coming to. And there was Vanessa Redgrave
doing her same stupid Communist routine up on stage that she did for us at
860 once. And I can’t stand Woody Allen movies. I guess that says
something. I ran into Jim Andrews of Polaroid. Yul Brynner was there, and
Eric Clapton, and I kept looking for Doc Cox but I didn’t see him. Bob
came and told us that all the people who counted were down in the
basement—Halston and Apollonia and Tom Sullivan and Margaret and
Barbara Allen with Ryan O’Neal who’s in town shooting Oliver’s Story
with Candice Bergen. I introduced Ryan and Margaret, and she seemed
interested. I told her that Paris Match wanted her to do photos for them, to
work for them, but she said she didn’t like Paris Match, that it was (laughs)
too gossipy.
Bob thinks that Stevie threw away the list of old people we gave him to
invite, because Aileen Mehle—“Suzy”—and Ahmet and Mica had been
cold to him and he found out they hadn’t gotten their invitations. And after
this party with everybody mad at us, we’ve hit rock bottom.
Halston might want to rent Montauk.
And let’s see, who else was there? Sylvia Miles, Earl Wilson, Mariel
Hemingway, Brooke Shields and her mother, Maxime, Lily Auchincloss,
Géraldine Smith and Liz Derringer, David Johansen, PH, Steve Paul,
Tinkerbelle, Glenn O’Brien and his girlfriend Cheryl, Charles Rydell,
Clarisse Rivers, Roz Cole, Steve Aronson, Chris Makos, Robert Hayes, Earl
McGrath, Richard Bernstein, Andrew Wylie, Peter and Sandy Brant, Joe
Allen and his girlfriend, Jed, Jay, Ed Walsh, Gael Malkenson, Jackie Rogers
and Peter Marino and Eduardo Agnelli.
Tuesday, April 4, 1978
Louis Malle called and asked if I was coming to the screening of his movie,
Pretty Baby.
There was only one mention in the papers about the party, in Earl
Wilson’s column. And it didn’t even mention Polaroid. I think all those
Polaroid guys are going to get fired there for spending $30,000 on a party
like that. And Interview will probably lose all their ads. Swifty Lazar’s
Oscar party got all the big mentions. Bob should have made sure Liz Smith
was invited, and Rex Reed. And now that I’m thinking about it, I bet the
reason all the society people didn’t show up was because it was given by
Truman! They’re probably all mad still at him.
I went home and glued and Barbara Allen called and said she didn’t
have anyone to go to the screening of Louis Malle’s movie, Pretty Baby,
with, so she picked me up at 7:45. We cabbed to the Paramount building in
Columbus Circle ($2.50). The screening was a lot of well-to-do famous
people. Frank Yablans thanked me for all the nice things he heard I’d said
about his movie, The Other Side of Midnight, but I was only kidding.
Brooke Shields was there and Mariel Hemingway. Barbara met
Baryshnikov and had him sit next to her and she dropped me for him. She
asked me, “What’re you doing later?” And when I said going home, she
said (laughs), “Great.”
It was a cute idea for a movie, but nothing comes off—like they had
pickets picketing against the sin in New Orleans, but nothing happened
because of it. Afterwards a friend of Louis Malle’s came up and said that
Louis really wanted to know what I thought and I said it was “wonderful,”
“interesting,” “strange.” Then we had an exciting elevator ride down
because it was Baryshnikov, Barbara, Milos Forman, Frank Yablans, Diane
Von Furstenberg. And Milos was peeking under Baryshnikov’s jacket
—“looking for the little girl.” And Baryshnikov has such a great body but
his hair is so funny. He wears it puffy, one of those bubble hairdos. He
should get a haircut that makes him look more masculine with his good
Russian face.
Wednesday, April 5, 1978
Victor came by and pissed on some drawings for me. Gave Ronnie money
($2) for papers at the newsstand to check if the Polaroid party was ever
covered. Actually, everyone was calling to say it was a great party.
Thursday, April 6, 1978
Marguerite Littman and her husband Mark who’s the queen of England’s
lawyer came to lunch. Doc Cox brought them in his Rolls Royce. Then
Billy Kluver, and Julie Martin and Lucy Jarvis came up. They brought a
Negro guy named Chris who they want to back a musical of my life (coffee
$.76, $1.89). Fred had invited Regine and Diana Vreeland had had a lunch
date with Regine, so she came along, too. Diana didn’t know who Doc Cox
was, so she thought he was the one to be nice to, so (laughs) she missed the
point. She kept asking Regine, “Tell me, why am I being nice to this man?”
Billy Kluver had told me that Chris was a “scientist,” but it didn’t seem
like it. He was fascinating. He started at seventeen, whatever he does. He
told me about owning beachfront property in California. He said he had a
coffee business in Brazil, but I don’t know, it sounded like smuggling. I
mean, a couple of good cocaine loads and you’ve made a few million. He
looks so young, and anything you mention, he’s “thinking of buying it.” He
said he wanted to buy Radio City Music Hall and turn it into the world’s
largest discotheque. That would be such a great idea. New York needs the
world’s biggest discotheque.
Then Tom Sullivan arrived and this Chris made Tom seem like peanuts.
Then Gianni Agnelli came in and Chris said he was thinking of buying Fiat,
so I went over to where Gianni was talking to Regine and Diana and said
that I had a buyer for Fiat and his ears perked up. The two of them went
over into a corner, but then (laughs) Gianni left really fast.
Then Tom Sullivan pissed on some paintings for me and left.
Doc Cox was thrilled, talking to Regine and Diana and then meeting
Gianni Agnelli.
Saturday, April 8, 1978
I’m still looking for a way to paint the BMW. David Whitney said why
didn’t I get one of those paint rollers that you roll flower designs on the
wall with, so I went to paint stores and finally one place could have one for
me on Monday, so I’ll send Ronnie up (cabs $2.00, $2.15, $1.60).
Bob said let’s take Mick and Jerry out and entertain them, and so we
invited them for dinner at La Grenouille. We had a good time, we got drunk
(dinner $320). Then we went with Mick back to the Pierre because he
wanted to take his sneakers off—why is everybody wearing sneakers? Why
don’t they make them in dark colors so they could be dress shoes, they’d be
so comfortable. Jerry complained that the Pierre made a big point of calling
her Miss Hall all the time, and finally she and Mick were deciding that they
should really go to a new place. Because Mick had always been at the
Pierre with Bianca. It took them long enough to figure that out. Anyway,
they’re going to move to the Carlyle.
Mick wanted us to hear his new record, and we were going to bring it
over to Studio 54 but it was at Earl McGrath’s house, so we went over there
(cab $4). Jann and Jane Wenner were there and Stephen Graham who had
something wrapped in foil in his pocket. It looked like drugs, but it turned
out to be a Rice Crispie cookie.
We went to Studio 54 and when we got there it was already so late, I
didn’t realize it. And Jane and Steve Graham had said they would do
anything for a Quaalude so I got some from Steve, but then I got scared—
I’m never going to do anything like that again. It’s bad image. And by the
way, Bob says he saw me put a little coke on my gums when we were in
Mick’s room, but I didn’t really. I mean, my finger was in my mouth, but,
uh … okay, so I didn’t leave there until 4:00. When I got home the dogs
woke up and started barking, and so they notified Jed what time I was
coming home.
Monday, April 10, 1978
Mr. Ballato is in the hospital and they’re operating on him tomorrow. He’s
lost fifty pounds in a month and they don’t know what’s wrong with him.
He said New York Hospital was so bad to him. He went in for tests and
when they were over he had a black eye. His wife is running the restaurant.
Tuesday, April 11, 1978
Watched the Today Show with Gene Shalit interviewing Fran Lebowitz in
the morning and waited for the word Interview but she only mentioned
Mademoiselle, and it’s not like she isn’t calculating enough to work it in if
she wanted. Gene Shalit thinks she’s hysterical.
And then Averil Meyer came to the office because she wanted to meet
Ruth Carter Stapleton who was coming with Dotson Rader at 3:00 (cab $4).
But they didn’t get there until 4:00.
Brigid was offended that Dotson said “fuck” and “shit” in front of Ruth,
and she said, “There’s nothing left to respect in life if he can say that in
front of the president’s sister. It just shows you that Nixon should be back in
the White House.” And Ruth Carter Stapleton was sweet, and Dotson was
disgusting as usual. She wanted a Polaroid of us and naturally there weren’t
any bulbs, so Ronnie went out to get some and Vincent took a Polarvision
movie and showed it and that was the entertainment. I gave her a Bad T-
shirt.
And the guy from the hamburger place came by. I’m doing a portrait of
a hamburger, Frank Fowler got me the job. I can’t remember the name. Not
McDonald’s, not Burger King, not Wendy’s, not Wetsons—something else.
Toni the girl I met from High Times magazine and her girlfriend Carole
were picking me up in a limo at 8:30. So I waited until 10:00 and finally
they arrived, then we picked up Brigid. I wanted to tape them and see if I
could make a play out of it. Toni was wearing a T-shirt of two guys making
it.
Well, we went down to 10th Street between First and Second to Princess
Pamela’s restaurant, something like that. Carole was in a fur coat. We rang
the doorbell and Princess Pamela answered, a colored lady in a bright red
wig. She looked like a drag queen, so you get the idea. They’d expected us
at 8:30. Well, we went up the stairs to the second floor and there was
nobody else in the place but two Negro girls, waitresses—entertainers. It
was three little rooms and a white piano in one room. And the two girls
were about thirty-five and sort of intelligent, but like black Valerie
Solanises. It was a restaurant with readings in between courses. The place
started out fifteen years ago, and Craig Claiborne gave it a couple of stars in
1966 when it was on the ground floor. And they had pictures of Norman
Norell on the wall and he’s dead already of throat cancer, probably from
eating there. I thought I heard her say something about Idi Amin flying over
from Paris once for a party at her place but I don’t know, that I may have
heard wrong.
Toni and Carole—all they talk about is 1966. I kept asking them what
happened between ‘70 and ‘75, and they were off drugs, I guess, so they
said, “Nothing.”
The princess put on a gown and was singing, and she brought in a 2’ X
1’ peach cobbler made out of a canned peach and it was so sad because
nobody had been there, it wasn’t even cut into. She said, “I made it just for
you.” And I didn’t want to eat it, so to make it look used, I put it on Brigid’s
plate, and Brigid gave me one of her mean “Honey” looks, like her mother
Honey gives her, and said how dare I. And the princess had a brochure
about the place that had something about Joe Franklin in it.
Brigid was just in love with the place, you know how overboard she
goes. She’s going to start going there all the time. And then I couldn’t take
it anymore, I just had to leave, so I went downstairs. Toni paid the bill.
Wednesday, April 12, 1978
Suddenly TV cameras arrived to photograph me painting the model of the
BMW car I’ll be painting later on. Well, it was a mess. I was going to roll
the paint on with a roller with the flowers on it, and I was going to do it in
pink and black but then Chris Makos had me change it to yellow and black,
and I started to roll it on, and the paint was shiny and it slipped, and it
wouldn’t stick to the car model, and Victor Bockris was there and I rolled it
on him, but it was a bust. Leo Castelli came by and almost got sick, it was
such a mess.
Thursday, April 13, 1978
Interview lost the Halston centerfold ad, maybe. For weeks someone’s been
telling me it’s on the way, and then yesterday they called and said they
didn’t know anything about it, so we don’t know. Victor’s so out of touch
with the Halston house now. Stevie is Halston’s new best friend —he’s over
there every night instead of going to work at Studio 54. Victor always said
that you did have to watch Halston—that he could turn on you—that you
had to stay more unattainable and that would make it more glamorous for
him.
The best thing that happened was a kid arrived with a singing telegram
for Marc Balet’s birthday, but Marc wasn’t there yet, so they came to get me
to show me. He had a red uniform and it said “The Singing Messenger.” I
asked him for a free sample and he sang “I’m So Glad You Came Out of the
Closet Today,” which he said is one of their most popular songs, so that was
funny.
Friday, April 14, 1978
Went with Richard Weisman to the Hotel Americana for a banquet for the
Yankees. The master of ceremonies was Howard Cosell, and they marched
the whole team in. Everyone was trying to get Reggie Jackson’s autograph.
And it was funny because Averil Meyer’s grandmother, Mrs. Payson, owns
the Mets, and Averil kept saying, “I own the Mets,” and everybody thought
she was crazy. She wrote Yogi Berra a note and passed it on toward him,
but someone didn’t pass it along and so she got up and went and took it
back. He used to be with the Mets. The note said something like:
“Remember when you bounced me on your knee, then gave me a hot dog in
the dugout?” And Mickey Mantle got his award—that’s what it was for.
And Howard Cosell was introducing people from the dais and he introduced
me, he called me a Pop artist—I guess Richard is pushing to get the
paintings sold.
I talked to Suzy Chapstick and she said that she’s noticed that most girls
who get famous are tomboys when they’re little, and I said that I’d been a
tomboy.
And then at the office there was the big problem with Halston. He called
Fred to say that Victor’s been going around saying that if Halston didn’t pay
us the money he owes for the paintings he bought from us, that he, Victor,
would repossess them and sell them to Elsa Peretti. Halston asked Fred if
we’d put Victor up to it. Fred said no. And Halston’s fired everyone at the
house —Lorenzo and the maid, too. All since last weekend. And he’s
having trouble with his line, he can’t work, he’s been so upset. The other
night in the basement at 54 there was a huge fight that Elsa started—she
was attacking Stevie and calling everybody faggots and it was really bad, I
guess. I wasn’t there. Bob finally got her to leave with him. It’s enough to
make you want to stay home for the rest of your life. She was smashing
glasses and everything. So between Victor and Elsa, Halston’s really a
wreck.
The other big event at the office in the afternoon was when Ronnie
opened the door to the bathroom in the conference room—that lock doesn’t
really work—and there was Margaret Trudeau sitting on the toilet with her
pants down and a coke spoon up her nose. He said, “Excuse me,” and
backed out. She’d come down with Tom Sullivan.
Saturday, April 15, 1978
I don’t know how to handle the Victor situation. He called and I talked to
him on the phone and he was telling me the philosophy his mother gives
him, and it’s so great, it’s just like my philosophy, I wish I could remember
it all. He follows her advice and creates all these problems —just to make
life more interesting. Like, she bought a small apartment house because she
didn’t have anything to do and she thought if she could get nervous every
month over whether the tenants were going to pay her the rent that that
would make life more interesting. Isn’t that great? And Victor says he just
makes all these problems in his life just to feel something. I tell him, “Why
don’t you just pretend to be nice? You could get along so easily with
Halston.” And he says, “I can’t, I have Latin blood. I can’t pretend, it’s nice
to fight. It makes it more exciting.” It gets so wild with Victor on the phone.
Sunday, April 16, 1978
The gossip from Saturday night at Studio 54 before was that Jack Nicholson
came in and Ryan O’Neal was there with Barbara Allen and everyone was
trying to keep Jack and Ryan apart so they wouldn’t see each other. Barbara
thought it was because of her, but it was the situation with Anjelica—she’s
been seeing Ryan lately. And Stevie called and said how hard he worked,
that it was so much fun keeping them apart. And Tatum was dancing with
Mona Christiansen. And Stevie said that Liza was dying for Marty Scorsese
to get back to town, because Baryshnikov just sees too many girls.
I worked all afternoon and then I watched Holocaust and kept making
myself more fresh grapefruit juice and vodka and kept passing out. They
gassed the little girl. I was thinking everybody really is in their own little
world. They tell you to do something, and you don’t know what’s going on,
they’re the ones who know, you’re at their mercy. So maybe the Germans
were saying the Jews were really bad so they had to kill them—oh, but
then, no, they’d been living together with them so long, they were right next
door, so they knew they weren’t bad. But it’s like when you go to a hospital
—they take you and they do anything with you, because you don’t know
about their world. Or it’s like investing in art, you trust people, or investing
in stocks, you don’t know, so you accept what they say is good or bad, or
even sports. Or terrorist groups, they’re out in the street handing you things
and they’re in their own world.
But still, today, if somebody said, “We have to do this to the Puerto
Ricans,” I mean, could you do it? You couldn’t. So how did they do it? I
mean, think of some German you actually know: could they do it, or … But
if you do it once, you can do it again and again, that’s for sure. So after they
did one, I guess it was easy.
Monday, April 17, 1978
Closed up early because we had to go see Tom Cashin open in The Best
Little Whorehouse in Texas, the musical down on Second Avenue and 13th
Street (cab to theater $2.30). I had to pay for the tickets, they weren’t free
($23). Tom’s number was right before intermission and he was good, he
was cute. He got a big hand. I got out at 8:00.
Then I stuck on a black tie with my bluejeans and rushed over to Lee
Thaw’s. It turned out I was early, and then a little later when Bob and Fred
came, they were making excuses for me, that I’d be late, before they
realized that I was already there. This was a dinner for the Van der Kemps
from Versailles, and the Herrings from Houston were there and Mary
McFadden and Tammy Grimes. I made a faux pas and said to Tammy,
“You’re wearing one of Mary’s dresses,” and she said, “No, a Fortuny.” I
said Mary’s name first because the last time I said to someone, “Oh you’re
wearing a Fortuny,” the person said, “No, it was a Mary McFadden.” Then
Mary showed me the difference—hers had a machine-stitched hem and the
Fortuny’s hem was hand-stitched.
And then there was a party at Hurrah’s for Tom’s play so we were going
to go there, but we stopped at Studio 54 for a minute (cab $3). And when
we were there Halston tapped me and said that Liza and Baryshnikov were
there and wanted to go right then to see the portrait of Liza. So we went to
the Olympic Tower, and they loved the paintings. They did look great.
Baryshnikov talked about them for hours. And Baryshnikov told me that his
mother when he was eight was getting him interested in art and music and
makeup and dress designing, and he had Harper’s Bazaar around and knew
about the art director Brodovich…. I don’t know what city in Russia, it
must have been a big one. And I brought up Chrissy Berlin who was the one
who actually helped him defect, and he said that she was just someone he
liked for a minute, that he only likes every girl for a minute. He said his
first love was Makarova—she left her husband for him, and then changed
her mind and went back, and last year when she got married again he went
to her wedding in San Francisco and he didn’t feel a thing. He was the best
man, she married some rich guy.
Tuesday, April 18, 1978
I finally got a BMW painted, black with pink roll-on flowers. Maybe they’ll
read meaning into it. I hope so.
Some kids from Alabama brought me up some of the Space Dust candy
that was on the front page of the Post today. It explodes and crackles inside
your mouth.
I talked to a lady who said she goes to hospitals and makes flower
arrangements for cancer patients, and I told her I’d like to, too. I wouldn’t
like to, though. I was going to ask her wasn’t she afraid she’d catch cancer,
but I don’t know, maybe a little bit of flowers does make a dif— Oh, I don’t
know. Flowers wouldn’t make me feel better if I were a patient. Only that
you’d know that on a certain day a person was coming in to do the flower.
Isn’t it funny that they can cure diseases and still not know what causes
them? Like they cured polio, but they still don’t know how you get it. And
all those kids dying in New Jersey of cancer. I guess it’s the water.
Wednesday, April 19, 1978
Called John Reinhold and he invited me to lunch. Went out in the rain and
got a cab ($2.50) to 46th and Fifth. I went upstairs and looked at stones,
he’s teaching me all about them. He said that he never buys hot stones or
cheap stones, that he just waits for the good things and pays the price. We
walked over to Pearls in the rain for lunch, and it was fun. On the way in we
saw Corice Arman waiting for Arman who was parking the car. John and I
talked about Holocaust and I always thought that John was born in Europe
because he has sort of an accent, but he was born in the U.S., I guess he
needs the accent for the diamond business. Pearl made a good lunch, we
had whiskey. John had a kid staying with him and his wife who—he’d
reminded me of René Ricard when I met him—I said was a creep, and then
I had to explain how when I say “creep” it doesn’t mean that I don’t like
them, and that took an hour. After work I had to leave for Eleanor
Lambert’s cocktail party for Bernadine Morris, the New York Times fashion
writer who’s done a photograph book with a girl photographer on fashion.
I was talking to Calvin Klein and he said he was going on vacation and I
said where, and he said, “And I’m not telling anyone, and just alone alone
alone, absolutely no one, and it’ll be so wonderful.” And then I went across
the room and Giorgio Sant’Angelo was saying the same thing, that he was
going for two weeks alone alone alone to the Greek islands and I said, “Are
you sure you’re not going with Calvin Klein?” and he said, “Oh, you know
everything,” and I said no, that I’d just put two and two together.
And Diane Von Furstenberg was there and she lives in Eleanor
Lambert’s building so she invited Bob and me down for dinner and to watch
Holocaust. So we went down and Diane’s mother was there, and Marina
Cicogna. Diane’s mother had been in Auschwitz, and when the
concentration camps came on she was laughing—she said that they made it
so much more glamorous than it was when she was there, that all the
women had crewcuts and it was a lot more crowded, that where the movie
had 20 people there were really 300,000. And it was weird to be seeing this
with Marina Cicogna whose family was so involved with Mussolini. Before
it was over, Diane was ready to go out, she was calling for a limousine.
Friday, April 21, 1978
Milton Greene was at lunch at the office and he said that I’d given him the
idea to do a Marilyn Monroe portfolio, so he’s selling ten photographs of
her for $3,800. Fred told him he thought that was high, but he said he’s
already sold a few to museums. But I don’t know, the photographs aren’t
even that good. And it seems like they were all taken in the same sitting. He
and Marilyn had that company together, they did The Prince and the
Showgirl. I know Milton because he and Joe Eula were the nicest to me on
the first day I came to New York—he and Joe were close for years but then
later Milton married Amy. Somebody had given me their names, to look
them up, and I did and they told me I could use their phone and everything,
but I never took them up on it because (laughs) they were so nice it scared
me.
And Matt Collins the big male model came by. He’s so good-looking,
and Brigid got a kiss out of him. And Margaret Trudeau was there and said
she’ll do the Rums of Puerto Rico ad for me.
I wanted to go home, but Carole of Toni and Carole wanted us to see her
new apartment, so we went over to, I think, 79th and the Hudson River. And
it was a nice apartment. It was really neat, and it looked rich, and she and
her girlfriend said their most treasured possession was a Warhol over their
bed, and we went to look at it, and it was so sad, because it was a fake. And
I knew it, and Brigid knew it, and Victor knew it. She said it was part of her
“divorce settlement” from Toni. Should I tell her? It was so sick.
Saturday, April 22, 1978
Went up to the Carlyle where Jerry Hall is registered as “Miss Philips.” On
the way we got film (cab and film $5). Jerry was ready to go as soon as we
got there, she came down in a second. Cabbed to Quo Vadis ($2). She’s so
beautiful, everybody looks at her. She’s only twenty, I didn’t know she was
so young. We avoided talking about Mick. She said she left Texas and went
to Paris when she was sixteen. Her first roommate was Tom Cashin and
then she met Antonio and he drew her and everything. Oh but Mick and she
are going to have beautiful children, and I guess Mick really does want
children—he had Jade, and Jade’s pretty, but the kids he’ll have with Jerry
will be stunning. Maybe a beautiful boy. I think he wants someone who’ll
stay home now that he’s not going to be on the road too much. He wants a
wife who’ll be there and Jerry’s willing to give up her career.
Then after we left Quo Vadis we walked along Madison back to the
Carlyle and had champagne and orange juice. While they stay there Mick
pays the hotel and Jerry pays room service. She makes good money, $750
or $1,000 a day. She showed us a love letter from Mick, it said, “I love
you”—it was signed “M” with an “X.” We didn’t have any more tapes so I
said, “Why don’t we tape over one of Mick’s?” You know, meaning one of
his new originals. I was kidding, but wouldn’t that have been funny? Jerry
wants to be an actress. She’s taking lessons.
Sunday, April 23, 1978
Bob said he and Kevin had had dinner with Diana Vreeland and that Diana
was saying that I wasn’t avant-garde anymore. She said that the book Bob
and I are doing, the photography book—Chris Hemphill brought it over to
show her—wasn’t avant-garde, and she said that Jackie O. had said I wasn’t
avant-garde, either. So it’s all just Chris Hemphill saying these things,
blabbing to both of them, and then them repeating it. Because they don’t
even know what I do. And Diana was saying how great Saul Steinberg was,
and Bob told her, “He’s just an illustrator.” She must be mad at Fred or
something, and that’s why she’s putting me down, because I can’t believe it,
we had such a good time together that night last week, she was so much
fun. And Chris Hemphill is doing her book for her. Fred set that up.
Then Stevie called and told me to ask Bob to invite Elsa Peretti, he said
he didn’t care about that fight in the basement, that he didn’t care that she
called him a kike.
So I picked up Catherine and we went over to Halston’s. Then the
doorbell rang and Joe Eula came back and said that it was Barbara Allen—
I’d told her about Halston’s party—and Halston got offended and said,
“This was supposed to be a small party!” And then Barbara came in with
Gianni Agnelli and Baron and Baroness Von Thyssen, who I didn’t
recognize, but I guess they thought I was ignoring them because of the
painting they sent back a few years ago. And Bianca and Dr. Giller had
gone to the Erotic Bakery and gotten a big marzipan cake of a cock fucking
an ass, and then another one of just a cock. Over on 70th and Amsterdam.
They have the stuff in the windows, and the cookies are chocolate tits. And
Bianca brought the cake in and she put the cock and balls up against her,
and it was coffee-colored so she looked like Potassa the drag queen.
Halston was pretending to eat it and suck it. And Catherine made a faux pas
and said the chic thing would be to cut the cake and eat it, and he said, “No,
that would not be chic.” He was high and he wanted to leave it uncut. As I
sat there looking at Bianca I started getting more and more nervous about
Interview’s cover story next month on Jerry Hall.
We stayed at Halston’s until about 1:00 drinking, then we went over to
Studio 54 in limos. Gianni Agnelli didn’t come with us, he went home to
wait for a call about the Moro kidnapping—he’s somehow involved with
working out a ransom deal with the terrorists. The baron and baroness
came, and somehow we got lost from Stevie. They didn’t understand about
going to the basement. And Stevie had the basement decorated now, with
scarves and candles and popcorn, but it’s (laughs) like going to a St. Mark’s
Place hippie pad.
Tuesday, April 25, 1978
The Rums of Puerto Rico have cancelled their entire ad campaign, they said
the FCC is giving them too much trouble and that Margaret Trudeau would
be too hot to do, for sure. So then I had Bob call them and ask about our
money, and they said we’ll get it.
Chris Makos called about me being interviewed by a psychiatrist who’s
doing a book on IQs and I said I wouldn’t do it unless I got paid, and he
called back and said, “$1,000,” and I asked Fred and Fred said it sounded
like fun, so then I said okay.
The Ungaro party was at Doubles. Then dinner—Quo Vadis—Margaret
was being so sweet, she was gossiping and saying that she knew (laughs)
she could tell me anything because I wouldn’t tell anybody. She said that
Pierre Trudeau was in town and that she’d introduced him to Lacey
Neuhaus and she was thrilled that they’d hit it off.
And Margaret is so in love with Tom Sullivan. They were just in
Georgia and she said that Tom was riding so fast on a horse that she had to
hide behind a tree and close her eyes, that it was the fastest she’s ever seen
anyone go. He does take chances, Tom.
Wednesday, April 26, 1978
Closed the office early because Fred and I were going up to his place to
wait for Averil to pick us up and go to the Mets game (gave Fred $4). I
forgot how expensive cabs up to 89th Street are.
Drove out to Shea Stadium with Fred and Averil in her mother’s mini-
Cadillac—she’s a fast driver. Fred had given me a winter coat and I really
needed it, it was freezing. At the end of the eighth inning when we left it
was 0-0 and on the way in on the radio it was still 0-0 (toll $.75).
Averil dropped her mother’s car off at the 52nd Street garage, and then
we got a cab for Elaine’s. Bob was having a dinner for Baron Leon Lambert
from the Belgian bank, so he had Chris Makos and Catherine Guinness, and
Catherine was wearing a T-shirt that said “Where is Palestine?” Her great-
grandfather was Lord Moyne of Palestine who got assassinated there in
1944 by the Stern Gang. She asked Leon if he was Jewish. And he’s half-
Jewish, his mother’s some kind of Rothschild. And Catherine said, “I don’t
give a damn. Do you realize that if Hitler had won the war, my step-
grandfather would be dictator of England?” Sir Oswald Mosley. The
founder of the British Fascist Party. But Bob said Catherine and Leon
seemed to hit it off anyway.
Then Chris’s boyfriend arrived, Peter Wise. So we went over (cab $3.25)
to Studio 54’s anniversary party. We got out on West 53rd Street and went
in the back way because there were mobs out front. We went to the
basement with all the gold pillows and the ceiling sounded like it was going
to fall through from the dancing. Halston said we should (laughs) rehearse
for later when they brought the cake in and we had to give speeches, so he
rehearsed his speech. Truman had a tin-foil hat band around his black hat
and I was talking to him when YSL walked in with Marina and he gave
Halston a really big kiss, so that was Fashion News. Yves looked like he
could have been on something.
Then we went upstairs and sat on a piano in front of the curtain and the
cake never arrived and Halston made a speech about how much Studio 54
has done for New York and he was good, and then he said, “And now I’ll
pass the mike to Andy.” But I already had a mike in my hand, and it’s bad
enough not having anything to say when you’re holding one mike, but I just
said, “Uh, uh, oh, gee, uhhh …” I don’t know, I just made sounds and you
couldn’t have heard it anyway, and people laughed, and then Bianca said
something and it might as well have been in Nicaraguan because you
couldn’t understand it, and then she passed the mike to Liza, who was
wearing a red Halston, and she sang something like “Embraceable You” but
it was from The Act and it had lines like “Forget Donald Brooks/Halston
has all the looks.” And Bob said that he hadn’t heard such self-indulgence
by a clique since Hitler in the bunker. Left with Catherine, dropped her off
($3.50).
Wednesday, May 3, 1978
Nelson called, he’s still plugging away at his screenplay. He said he had to
take a Valium when Fran Lebowitz made it so big—they still don’t speak—
and his old friend Brian DePalma has The Fury out.
We were invited to John Richardson’s for a dance. We limoed over and it
was so chic. Lynn Wyatt was there and Nan Kempner, and—The Empress.
If Bob calls Diana Vreeland “The Empress” or me “The Pope of Pop” in his
“Out” column one more time … Diana took out her compact and brushed
on an inch of rouge and said, “Is it Kabuki enough yet?”
Bianca’s being really awful to Barbara Allen, getting back at her for
Mick, and now she’s got Halston against Barbara. But I got back at Bianca
—I told her she missed the best fashion show, Ossie Clark’s. I said, “Oh
Bianca, it was all just made for you, my dear—a beautiful bat-wing dress
and a Wonder Woman outfit that you should run right out and get
immediately.” (laughs) Because you see, she’s stuck. She’s Halston’s friend
and Halston’s clothes just aren’t right for her—they make her too short and
they cut her body the wrong way. They look like a bad diaper. I mean, I like
Halston’s things because they’re simple, and that’s what American clothes
should be, but they just don’t look good on Bianca, she needs to wear more
of a costume.
Saturday, May 6, 1978
Then Arman called and said he’d sold eight Flower fakes of mine, because,
he said, he didn’t know they were fakes. But I said, “You must have known
or you wouldn’t have hid them away for all these years, and you must have
bought them cheap off somebody like Terry Ork or Soren Agenoux.” So
those fakes really did damage and Gerard is still swearing up and down he
didn’t do them. They made my prices go down because people are now
afraid to buy paintings because they feel they could be buying fakes.
There’s an auction coming up of paintings that Peter Brant is selling—a
big Electric Chair, a big Soup Can, a big Disaster, a big Mao, and a small
Soup Can.
Sunday, May 8, 1978
Only two tickets came for the David Bowie concert and everyone wanted to
go.
Bob spent the whole day on the phone about his birthday party. It’s
funny, some people actually want to have big birthday parties. Tauruses
always do. Bianca’s the same way. Bianca had called and said that she had
two tickets for David Bowie for me, so I gave my two tickets to Catherine
who was wanting to go so badly.
Doc Cox called and said he was giving a party for me June 7. For me,
right? He said he has some pills that I should come in and get that’ll
dissolve the stones in my gallbladder without an operation.
Dropped Catherine off ($3.50) and went home to get ready. Jed had Tom
Cashin there and we walked over to Halston’s and Halston had a limo and
so did Stevie. We waited for Bianca to get dressed and then rode over to
Madison Square Garden.
The music was too loud, and then Dr. Giller screamed in my ear, “DID
YOU GET DEAF YET?” and that did it for me, I think that’s what finally
made me deaf. We went backstage and had drinks and Bianca was in David
Bowie’s dressing room and when she came out she said that we were
having lunch with him at 1:00 tomorrow at Quo Vadis. Then he went on
stage again.
Then we went up to 1060 Fifth to the birthday party Diane Von
Furstenberg was giving for Bob. Kevin opened the door. It wasn’t too
crowded. Bob’s mother and father were there, and I never noticed before
that Bob’s father is attractive. I’ve met him before, but he really looked
good. Bob kissed me for my gift, and that was embarrassing. Catherine was
with Tom Sullivan and somewhere along the line Tom said to Bianca that
he’d rented Montauk for the summer, and then Bianca wasn’t talking to me
and left without saying anything, so I think my romance with Halston and
Bianca and Stevie is over. Stevie said, “Bianca’s upset.” See, Vincent called
Mick to see if he’d pay for the place if Bianca took it and Mick said no, so
… I don’t know what to do. I wonder if I’m still having lunch with David
Bowie. Should I call her up?
Tuesday, May 9, 1978
I called Bianca and the guy that answered gave me a funny answer, so I
didn’t know if she was standing there. Then she finally called back and said
that David Bowie was busy and couldn’t have lunch, but that we should do
it tomorrow. So I guess she wasn’t mad.
And Chris Makos called about the interview with the psychiatrist who’s
doing a book on famous people’s IQs and he wants to give me the IQ test
but I’ve decided I’m not going to take it. I mean, why should I let anyone
know how stupid I am. And the release this guy sent was too much—it
practically said he’d own my brain cells. So now Chris is mad at me for
backing out.
And have I said that I met a boy at Studio 54 who told me that he had an
affair with Vladimir Horowitz? I said, “How could a seventy-nine-year-old
man get it up?” I just don’t believe it.
And Doc Cox called for me, he’s been calling for a couple of months
saying he’s giving a party for me and asking for my list of people, and then
suddenly he said, “Do you mind if it’s also a party for Larry Rivers?” Isn’t
that odd? Does that mean he’s mad at me? Larry’s out of the hospital, he’d
had heart palpitations again.
And today they found Aldo Moro’s body dead in Italy.
Wednesday, May 10, 1978
Fred gave me a letter from Paloma. It said she was sending her article in to
Interview. She said her wedding was strange because there was everybody
who hadn’t talked to each other for years—Yves and Pierre and Karl at the
same table. And André Leon Talley did four pages in Women’s Wear on it
and Fred’s picture wasn’t in it.
I found out Bianca was out with David Bowie the night before.
I dropped Vincent (cab $4) then had to go up to Hoveyda’s for a party in
connection with the Brooklyn Museum for Helen Hayes. Fred and I were
the only different kind of people there, the rest were museum types. And
Helen Hayes looked beautiful. She’s gotten to be a good-looking old
woman. She wears the right shades of blue. This time I didn’t hate her. I
used to because in the fifties one time she was going to have a bunch of us
Serendipity kids out to her house in Nyack for a swimming pool party and
then she got sour and didn’t.
I told her that I loved her TV movie with Fred Astaire—although I
actually hated it—and she told me that it was the best thing to say to her
because she loved it so much.
Thursday, May 11, 1978
Victor called in the morning from San Francisco and said he hadn’t been
able to sleep all night and he was checking into the Baths there. Brigid says
she watches him when he’s at the office, spraying chloro-something on his
shirt and then sucking on it. The stuff they use to freeze when they operate.
Catherine and I were going up at 3:15 to Martin Scorsese’s at the Sherry
Netherland to interview him and Robbie Robertson from The Last Waltz.
And Catherine was so in love with Robbie Robertson and Martin Scorsese
that she had Gigi come by and do her makeup—lipstick and blush-on and
eye makeup—but actually she looks better without makeup. We were late,
so I gave Ronnie money ($5) because he had to get a Checker cab, he was
bringing a big painting uptown, and Catherine and I went alone (cab $3.50).
Marty had a big suite and he’s so adorable. The lady publicist who’s
doing The Last Waltz was there. Robbie Robertson didn’t get there until
5:00. A kid named Steven Prince was there, he played a creep selling guns
in Taxi Driver, and he’s really like that, so he was real. Marty said that now
he’s doing a full-length movie on Steven Prince’s face where he tells
stories, he said he got that idea from me. Marty said he and Robbie were
looking for a house, so I told them places to go. So that’s his roommate and
he’s got a butler, too, and it seems like he’s starting his own Factory. He
must be really in the dough, because they’re going to spend about $500,000
for it. Marty was shaking like crazy. I guess from coke. We sat down and
had lunch and it was funny because the publicity lady had just come back
from lunch so she sat at the other end of the table, watching, so it was like a
movie. I couldn’t even look at her, though, I was so starving that I ate. I
hadn’t eaten lunch at the office because I was trying to diet. We gossiped a
lot, I don’t know how much of it we’ll be able to print. Robbie said he knew
me from the Dylan days. I asked him what ever happened to the Elvis
painting that I gave Dylan because every time I run into Dylan’s manager
Albert Grossman he says he has it, and Robbie said that at some point
Dylan traded it to Grossman for a couch! (laughs) He felt he needed a little
sofa and he gave him the Elvis for it. It must have been in his drug days. So
that was an expensive couch.
Bob called and said we had to go to Liz Smith’s book party at
Doubleday’s, so we left and went over there. We rode up with Géraldine
Fitzgerald who was really sweet, she looked like a nice witch. Her hair. And
I said hello to Iris Love. Then I dropped Catherine ($2.50) and went home
and glued. Jed was going with me to the premiere of The Greek Tycoon. He
was a little late and we didn’t get there until 7:45 (cab $2.00). It was so
incredible to see a movie where they cast people to look just like the people
who they’re not supposed to be. Anthony Quinn really looks like Onassis.
When we got to 54 Stevie said he’d just driven Bianca to the airport. He
said he’s so in love with her, and that if he weren’t gay he’d really fall for
her, but he just couldn’t get it up. But (laughs) I think he was glad she was
gone. I think Halston’s glad, too. It’s so much. Stevie said they went
walking in Central Park at 8:00 in the morning like kids.
Sunday, May 14, 1978
Worked all afternoon while it poured outside. I wasn’t supposed to eat
anything because I was having a gallbladder test in the morning, but I had a
piece of bread.
Monday, May 15, 1978
Got up at 8:00 to go over to Doc Cox’s to start the new treatment where I
take medicine to get rid of the stones in my gallbladder. It was windy, I was
late, walked over fast. Some girl took X-rays and couldn’t find the dye on
them, so I have to go back again. And I was screaming about taking X-rays.
I don’t like to get them, I think they give you cancer. All the Doc could
think about was the party he’s giving for me and Larry Rivers. George
Plimpton was in the waiting room with hay fever when I went out.
Paul Morrissey came down to the office.
We slipped out around 10:00 and went over to Reginette’s where
Federico De Laurentiis was giving a wrap party for King of the Gypsies and
it was the kind of party where it’s all for the television to photograph,
thousands of people, such a firetrap, people jammed, bright lights—they
shouldn’t give parties like that, it’s too dangerous. And Barry Landau was
with me like glue, every step I would take he was right there, and if I’d
think of a clever new step to get away from him, he’d still be right there.
What makes a person do that? What kind of a person is it? It’s so sick.
Mr. Universe was there—it looked like Rome. And Eddie Albert, that
cute kid. Shelley Winters was drunk on the couch and she said I should buy
Neon Woman for her, the play Divine’s in up at Hurrah’s. She could really
fit the part. It took half an hour to make it to the door. So dangerous.
Tuesday, May 16, 1978
Cab to the Olympic Tower ($3.25). Halston had designed uniforms for the
Girl Scout troop leaders. So many ladies pounced on me. I said that Halston
must be making a bundle on this, but it turned out he did it all for free. It’s a
great way for these ladies to get a Halston for cheap—pants are only $25.
He did them in a funny color green—it’s not my favorite green—but then
all the ladies wearing it did look pretty.
Then we had to leave, we were going to the tenth New York magazine
anniversary party at Citicorp Center that the editor Joe Armstrong had
called and invited us to. It was jammed. Joe Armstrong met us, he said
they’d just had a fire in that big furniture store on the ground floor there.
Bella Abzug was there, she said she was on a diet, but she was tasting
everything that came her way. The owners of Plato’s Retreat came over and
invited us both to Plato’s. The man said, “Come and just hang out for an
hour or so, have a drink.” And the girl said, “The vibrations are so beautiful,
you won’t believe the things you’ll see.” So I said, “Come on, Bella. We’re
a couple —what’re we waiting for?” And Bella called her husband over and
said, “Martin, Andy just invited me to Plato’s.” And Martin said something
like, “Go ahead, Bella. Enjoy!” But Bella said she didn’t think it’d look
good in the papers.
Wednesday, May 17, 1978
Went to Doc Cox again for some more tests. The Doc had to give his own
blood test, the nurse is on vacation. He said he hadn’t done it himself for
years.
I peed in the bathroom, left a little sample in a jar there for my physical.
When I was leaving I noticed that the girl at the desk was writing (laughs)
the invitations to the garden party the Doc is giving for me.
Went up to a lunch for São Schlumberger that Mercedes Kellogg was
giving at 775 Park Avenue. Then after the lunch Mr. Bulgari—Nicola—
wanted to take Bob and me to his place, so we went down (cab $3). He
showed us everything, all the vaults, and he said he’d give us advertising.
There were separate little rooms where they take customers—I guess people
don’t like to be seen buying their jewels, like massage cubicles. He gave me
just what I wanted—a little silver letter opener—but he gave Bob three
(laughs) soundtracks from Italian movies.
Ran into Henry Geldzahler who was finally his old sixties self to me—
really rotten. Henry’s the Commissioner of Cultural Affairs of New York
City now. Mayor Koch appointed him.
Thursday, May 18, 1978
Cab to Chemical Bank ($4). Walked to the office and there was a big lunch
for Peppo Vanini and his Xenon discotheque electricians and Billy Kluver,
the head of—what’s it called? Experiments in Art and Technology—E.A.T.
I’m surprised that the Star Wars movie company didn’t actually
franchise discotheques of Star Wars all over the country, but then, now that
I’m thinking about it, things like that never work. It’s usually one person
who stands around screaming that makes a success out of a club.
I worked all afternoon on some pictures. Everyone was talking all
afternoon about the big auction coming that night, with the paintings of
mine in it that Peter Brant put up for sale. And Bob was upset that he wasn’t
invited to Diane Von Furstenberg’s party that she was having for either Sue
Mengers or Barry Diller. Fred wasn’t invited either, so I was going to have
to go alone.
I glued myself for Diane’s (cab $3).
Bob had gone to the auction, and he called me at Diane’s to say that a
big Disaster went for $100,000 but a medium-sized Mao only went for
$5,000. That sounded okay, so I told him we could still kick up our heels, I
was relieved that the paintings sold okay. I guess people don’t want to buy
at auction now, because you can’t make a big profit.
Diane always has the same food. It’s like revisited. The same Chinese
guy makes the same egg rolls and the same chocolate cake and the same
everything.
Friday, May 19, 1978
There was a fifteenth anniversary party for Tom and Bunty Armstrong at the
Union League Club and Fred had been invited, but Bob was taking his
place.
Left for 69th and Park, the Union League Club (cab $4). The people
were all WASP. The invitation said dancing, and I guess people thought that
meant dinner, too, so everyone was starving, but there was no food.
Leo Castelli was there, he said that the BMW people were coming out
with a new car so they wouldn’t be using the design I did because it was
done on the old car, but that they want me to go to Paris on June twelfth to
paint the new one. Peter Brant was there looking happy, really happy, now
that he’s gotten rid of all my paintings. And Leo told me that the de Menils
had bought all the paintings at the auction—François bought the Soup Can
for 95, Mrs. de Menil bought the Disaster for 100, and Philippa bought the
Funeral for 75. So that was good. And Jed was there. The WASP women all
looked so badly dressed. The rooms were so beautiful, though, beautiful old
paintings in them. I sat with Philip and Dorothy Pearlstein and talked about
the old days. The Gilmans were there. Left at 1:00.
Thursday, May 25, 1978—Zurich
Up at 7:00 craving soft-boiled eggs, tipped waiter ($2). Got some
newspapers ($1). Went to the Kunst Museum for a press conference (cab
$4). I didn’t have to talk, they were just taking photos. It was hard to look at
a retrospective, I just pretended to look at the walls. I can’t face my old
work. It was old. Had to sign a lot of Soup Cans, portfolios, stuff like that.
That lasted about two hours. Peter Brant never sent his pictures.
Friday, May 26, 1978—Zurich
Paulette called and said she thought the show was so exciting. And then I
called Bob at the office and he was in a very bad mood, but he didn’t tell
me what was wrong.
Thomas Ammann took us to a gay bar called Man (cab $3.50). Drag
queens singing to American records. “There’s No Business Like Show
Business.” Fred and I wanted to throw up.
Stayed a few minutes. Then the mayor had invited me to a big party at
an old castle a little out of town, so we went. All Zurich society (cab $4).
Sunday, May 28, 1978—New York
Still off-schedule from the time change. Bob called from Nantucket. He
apologized for being cranky on the phone and said that he’d gotten robbed
and that was why, that after Studio 54 he went down to the Cave and two
boys from there robbed him of his jewelry, but then one of them brought it
all back the next day. He said that he was through with drugs, and that he
was drying out, too.
Oh, and I guess Marina Schiano’s spread it all over, that Diana Vreeland
and Fred had a big fight outside New Jimmy’s in Paris. When he came back
in he’d mentioned it to me, but I thought he meant they’d just had an
argument. The real story is that Diana actually hit him and YSL tried to help
and she said, “No, it’s a fight between Fred and me!” and she was crying
and everything. Because she’s jealous of Lacey Neuhaus, she thinks Fred’s
making it with Lacey and I think she wants him to make it with her. Can
you believe it? It’s so crazy.
The new Interview looked good. Paloma on the cover, and it has fifteen
pages of ads.
Hoveyda was giving a dinner for Mrs. Saffra at the Pierre (cab $3). We
went up to a whole big chic apartment right in the hotel. I sat next to Mimi
Herrera under a Motherwell. She had a forty-carat diamond on. Poor Gina
Lollobrigida was the only person there who had fake jewelry, I think. Fake
emeralds. She has really big tits. I should interview her. I told her she
should hook up with Dino De Laurentiis. She said she didn’t know him, that
she was doing photography as a profession now. That guy we knew in the
sixties, Carlos, the one who always said Edie stole his leopard-skin rug,
gave the toast. I remember he sent a contessa down to the 47th Street
Factory to try to get the coat back. But you know, now that I think about it,
I guess Edie probably did steal it, but only in fun.
Monday, May 29, 1978
Went down to David Bourdon’s to get some art gossip (cab $2). David’s
building is on 10th Street, in the middle of the street art fair going on in
Greenwich Village, and David was upset by it—too many Howdy Doody
men.
We walked over to have lunch at One Fifth, and on the way we saw Patti
Smith in a bowler hat buying food for her cat. I invited her thinking she’d
say no, but she said, “Great.” When we walked in, there was the number-
one bestseller Fran Lebowitz sitting with Lisa Robinson. One Fifth is pretty
—bright and chintzy.
Patti didn’t want to eat too much, so she ate half my lunch. She said she
only loves blonds and that she wanted to have an affair with a blond. All I
could think about was her b.o.—she wouldn’t be bad-looking if she would
wash up and glue herself together a little better. She’s still skinny. She’s
with a gallery now, doing drawings and writing poetry. The Robert Miller
Gallery.
She had a baby, she said—that’s why she originally left New Jersey, and
she said that the baby was adopted on Rittenhouse Square. She called it “it”
and David asked her what “it” was and she said a girl. She reminds me a lot
of Ivy—everything was put on. She said she was in Italy the day Moro was
kidnapped and that she and Moro were the big things on Italian TV that day.
She said she didn’t take drugs in the sixties, that she’d only started recently,
and just for work.
Anyway, I missed my girl-lunch with David, I didn’t get any gossip
(lunch $35). Patti lives over One Fifth and so she went upstairs and David
and I walked over to Mays to get some supplies for the office ($32.89,
$2.79). I got tired from walking in the sun.
And the hot water here on 66th Street is overheating and leaking and I
have a vision of an explosion and the guy won’t come.
Tuesday, May 30, 1978
I called Doc Cox and wanted to ask about the gallbladder medicine, but he
wasn’t there, I guess he’s too busy with his garden party.
François de Menil called and invited Fred and me for dinner, but then
later on he called and said he had to make it for just drinks. He’s just back
from Hollywood where he signed a deal with a woman named Hannah
Weinstein to produce four movies and so we were going to talk movie-talk
with him (cab $4). François looked heavier and happier. He told us his
mother was starting a museum, that she was giving $5 million. God, it’s so
incredible, to have that much money, it’s so abstract. You just sit there and
try to think of how to be creative with it. We stayed there until 8:30.
I began watching The Valachi Papers on TV with Charles Bronson, and
then I fell asleep, and then I woke up and ran to the window when I heard a
voice say, “Open up, it’s the narcotics squad,” and then I realized it was on
the TV. It was scary to think that when you dream, you’re dreaming what’s
on TV, and it’s so real. I really thought the narcotics squad was right there.
Wednesday, May 31, 1978
There was an event up at Gracie Mansion. Left at 6:30 and the traffic was
bad, it took an hour to get there (cab $5.50). The Mayor wasn’t there yet,
but Arts Commissioner Henry Geldzahler was, and the first thing he said
was, “I don’t have any of your art up here.” He had Bob Indiana there, and
George Segal, and a lot of creepy people. It looked like the people who
work at the city Welfare Department.
Thursday, June 1, 1978
It turned out it was Catherine’s birthday. And Robbie Robertson from The
Band called, wanting me to do a poster for The Last Waltz, and so Fred and
I were going up there to meet him at his place at the Sherry Netherland to
talk about it, and when Catherine found out, she said that that could be her
birthday present. So we all cabbed up at 6:30, traffic was bad ($4).
We went up to the Scorsese-Robertson suite—Marty was in Rome
visiting (laughs) the grave of Roberto Rossellini. Robbie gave us
champagne, and then it was the same thing, they always say, “Well, will
you do this art poster for us and then we will sell it for you and isn’t that
wonderful?” And it’s mixed in with hippie talk and phrases, and then
everyone was too embarrassed to talk about money, so finally Fred said,
“Look, man, what’s in it for Andy?” (laughs) Yeah, he really said “man.”
Oh, and the butler who answered the door was that kid Marty’s making the
movie about, Steven Prince.
Then cabbed up to Suzie Frankfurt’s ($3.10). Fred and Catherine had a
big fight because she was putting down the Jews saying again that if only
Hitler had won … Fred told her how could she say that because she was in
a Jewish house. I honestly don’t know if Suzie’s Jewish or not. I mean,
she’s Catholic now—she got baptized this year. But why would she turn
Catholic unless she were Jewish? I don’t know, I think she’s just crazy.
Cabbed to the Eberstadts’ ($2.00). When we got there only Lord
“Brookie” was there, Harrison Ford and Earl McGrath. Fred was chasing
me, trying to kiss me, I don’t know why, he was acting out of it, weird. And
Keiko Carimati broke an antique nutcracker they had, it was in three pieces,
and we didn’t know whether we should say anything or not. And then
Catherine dropped a champagne glass and within a minute Fred dropped
one, too, and there was champagne and glass all over and it was
embarrassing. They’ll probably never ask us over again.
Friday, June 2, 1978
Robert Kennedy, Jr. was on TV for the tenth anniversary of when his father
was shot, so it’s ten years since I was shot, too—he was the day after me.
He’s been staying at Fred’s house for two weeks, Robert. With the Fraser
girl, Rebecca. They’re heavy in love.
Saturday, June 3, 1978
Ran into Dino Fabio on the street, the one who sold the house in L.A. to the
Arabs, who I met in Milan where he had the house with machine gunners
around it. While I was talking to him about five cars of people yelled my
name so he was impressed. One of them said, “I’m Andy Anka and I’m
personally inviting you to the Copa.” He’s Paul’s brother, but I don’t know
what he does yet.
Fred told me about his scene with Freddy and Isabel Eberstadt after I left
on Thursday. Freddy started picking on him about Nenna or something, and
Fred started crying uncontrollably, he couldn’t stop. Isabel and Freddy had
to take him home. Fred was in such a strange mood that night.
Averil Meyer told me she was bored, she said she wanted something to
do, so I invited her to a job at the office. I asked her to be a volunteer. She’s
supposed to come in on Monday, but she won’t show up. She’s too rich.
Sunday, June 4, 1978
Watched the Tonys on TV on the phone with Brigid. Liza was there with
Halston, and she won for Best Singer in a Musical, and when they called
her name Stevie Rubell jumped out of his seat next to Halston. Liza was
running against Eartha Kitt in Timbuktu and Madeline Kahn in Twentieth
Century.
Catherine called and said that Steve Aronson came over to her house the
night before—the lady he was going to visit in Southampton wouldn’t let
him bring his big dog so he didn’t go at all—so he and Catherine were both
depressed together. Catherine is in love with Tom but doesn’t want to go out
to Montauk and be a maid and Tom doesn’t want to be serious, and she
once told me that she would never get serious about it but she is, so she was
depressed. And Margaret Trudeau’s run off with Jack Nicholson or
something. And we’re upset if there was a party for Liza and we weren’t
invited. Yeah, I’m sure there was.
Monday, June 5, 1978
Walked along Madison handing out Interviews. People really know me now,
they think I’m the regular newspaperman (cab $3.50). Worked till 6:40 then
went home (cab $3.50) and glued myself and went to the Carlyle (cab
$2.25) to pick up Jerry Hall to take her to the dinner Hoveyda was giving
for the Shah’s brother way down at Windows on the World.
Mick opened the door. I thought he wouldn’t be there. He was on his
way up to Woodstock. I asked him if it was true that he’d bought 200 acres
up there and he said no, that he was just living upstairs from a dump. He
showed me their new album and the cover looked good, pull-out, die-cut,
but they were back in drag again! Isn’t that something?
After we left the Carlyle I told Jerry I thought Mick had ruined the Love
You Live cover I did for them by writing all over it—it’s his handwriting,
and he wrote so big. The kids who buy the album would have a good piece
of art if he hadn’t spoiled it. And Stevie got it into Earl Wilson’s column
that Bianca was “so touched” by the “Miss You” song that she “slowed
down divorce proceedings,” but Jerry said the song was really written about
her. She was wearing the same green Oscar de la Renta dress she wore the
last time I went out with her, and when we got into the elevator I noticed
that she had underarm b.o., like she hadn’t taken a shower before she got
dressed. So I guess Mick must like b.o. I didn’t have a limo but she didn’t
mind. I told Jerry that Barbara Allen had called from England where she
went with Bryan Ferry. Bryan never gave Jerry her clothes back after she
left him for Mick—he said he was keeping them because he knew she’d
come back—and after Barbara had been over there once, she told Jerry
she’d been trying on her clothes, and that did upset Jerry, but she said she
hopes Bryan and Barbara make it as a couple (cab $10). Down at the World
Trade Center the wind was really blowing so that’s when I was really
noticing the b.o…. We went up to the 107th floor and our ears popped. The
Secret Service was there because of the Shah’s brother, and Peter Beard said
the waitress and the bartender were S.S. because he’d heard them talking on
the way in. Hoveyda really fell for Jerry, making her kiss him on the lips.
The food was rotten but the sunset was so beautiful. Everybody was
trying to make Jerry. On the way home in a limo we picked up out front,
she told me her philosophy of How to Keep a Man: “Even if you only have
two seconds, drop everything and give him a blow job. That way he won’t
really want sex with anyone else.” And then she said, “I know I can tell that
to you (laughs) because you won’t tell anybody.” She’s so funny, she says
such stupid things. But then she’ll be able to rattle off the names of every
single person she met when she was in Iran. It’s what talking to Jane Forth
used to be like (limo $20).
Tuesday, June 6, 1978
Adriana Jackson and Clarisse Rivers and Princess Marina of I guess Greece
came to lunch (cab downtown $3) and they told about going the night
before to the enema doctor who Sam Green and Kenny Lane and Maxime
have been going to who also (laughs) does readings. And they all looked
into the crystal ball the guy had and nobody could see anything because
there was so much shit and dirt and candlelight. The guy told Nicky
Weymouth he saw a plane crash but later she got on the Concorde anyway,
although she was shaking, and it didn’t crash. But they all say they’re going
back to him anyway. How can people go back when they know that what
the person said didn’t happen?
Christopher Sykes came by, too, and he sang the newspaper in falsetto
and opera, which I’ve always wanted to do. He sang the story about the girl
going to the erotic dentist and another story about a chicken. I told him I
would manage him and book him at Reno Sweeney’s and Trax, but he said
he only performs for friends. He’s another poor-rich English kid.
At Trax, Tom Sullivan told Catherine that yes, they’re boyfriend and
girlfriend, but that they shouldn’t let it show in public because it cramps his
style with other girls.
Rupert’s assistant told me that blonds aren’t big in the gay world
anymore, and it’s true—it’s the hot tamales like Victor who make out now.
The new club called Xenon is opening tonight. Stevie called Bob and
asked him to spy there for him.
Wednesday, June 7, 1978
In the morning a guy with a foreign accent called the office and said there’d
be a “bomb at the party” that night. But we didn’t know (laughs) which
party. So I started getting a headache. We were going to parties at Fiorucci
and then Barbetta’s and then MOMA.
The cover of the Voice this week is “Studio 54 and the Mafia,” and when
Bob called Stevie to invite him to dinner, Stevie made it seem like he was
doing us a big favor—“Oh yeah, I’ll come, I’ll do anything for Andy.”
We ended up the night at Halston’s (cab $4). Stevie was going to be
there and Catherine had said we should show loyalty on the competition’s
opening night. Stevie said, “Let’s go to Studio.” It was jammed.
And forgot to say that the other day Doc Cox told me that Dr. Jacobs
said I couldn’t take this new medicine after all—the one that dissolves
gallstones—because my stones are too hard on the outside.
Sunday, June 11, 1978
Went to church, got magazines ($6) and went to the office (cab $3) because
Rupert was bringing by the Flower things. I decided I won’t sign the fake
ones that’re turning up all over Europe—the ones the people told us they
bought from Gerard. Maybe I should do new ones and make good on the
fakes in Europe. I don’t know, I’ll see. I dropped Rupert (cab $3.50) and
stayed home.
And I forgot to say that last week when Jed and I were walking on
Madison we ran into Dustin Hoffman in his beard with his little girl. He
was carrying lots of record albums from the house that he and his wife,
Anne, live in behind the Cerfs’ house, carrying them up to 75th Street. I
didn’t know then that he was leaving home, which I just read in the paper.
Tuesday, June 13, 1978
When I got to the office Phyllis Diller was already there with Barry Landau
eating lunch. She looks really old, but she was great. I don’t think the
facelift did much for her, but then again, maybe it did. Averil had invited
her mother Sandra Payson and her brother Blair Meyer, and John Reinhold
was there, too.
Dropped Vincent (cab $4) and then cabbed with Jed ($4.50) to the
opening of Grease. Edd Byrnes came over and said hello, and Randal
Kleiser, the director. It turns out he’s the kid who wrote Jed letters from
California and then was the assistant assistant director on Heat when Paul
and Jed filmed it in L.A. in 1972.
Fatso Allan Carr was there. What a butterball—if you pushed him over
he’d roll. Catherine was there with Stevie Rubell who was cool to me, I
guess because he read in New York magazine that I was standing in line to
get into Xenon, which I wasn’t. The movie’s great, Travolta’s so good. In
some camera angles he looks like a turtle, but with the right ones, he looks
like the new Rudolph Valentino. Stockard Channing is actually pretty but
one side of her face is much better than the other.
We walked over to Studio for the Grease party and went in the back
door where all the fifties cars were parked and the waiters were siphoning
the gas out of the tanks because I guess you’re not allowed to bring cars
with full gas tanks into buildings. John Philip Law was behind us. They
were giving out hair pomade, and the place smelled so good—just hot dogs
and hamburgers, everything from the fifties. Met Mr. Nathan of “Nathan’s,”
he and his wife were doing the hot dog stand.
Sunday, June 18, 1978—London
Staying at the Dorchester in a big ugly Spanish-style suite overlooking the
park. Ran over to Sotheby’s to see the Von Hirsch collection, the biggest
since Scull.
Monday, June 19, 1978—London
Lunch at La Famiglia. Chris Hemphill came for coffee. He always manages
to say that one wrong thing. With Bianca sitting right there he asks me,
“When is Jerry Hall’s cover coming out?”
Walked on the King’s Road. Fred was hawking, trying to sell Bianca’s
autograph and mine for 50p but no one was interested. Bianca got very
embarrassed.
At the Turf Club Ball Fred evidently flipped out—he started crying
about the passing of the nineteenth century—how there were so many
beautiful things done in it and how the people who did it were now all gone
—and a girl took him into a room alone. I was upstairs with Bianca. Later
we found out that Fred stopped in a bar on the way home and met five Scots
and they ended up stealing his shoes from outside his door.
Tuesday, June 20, 1978—London
The phone operators at the Dorchester were so great, very sharp. One said,
“There’s a fake Mrs. Jagger on the line. Do you want to talk to her?” I said,
“Okay,” but when I said hello the girl hung up. The operators screen every
call and they know where you are every minute, they don’t have to look it
up. I mean, if the whole world were British it would run so great. London
this time was so much fun, better than New York in the sixties. But all the
great people only were there for these two big weeks of events, so …
At lunch we were teasing Bianca that it had somehow made it into the
newspaper that Fred was trying to sell her autograph on the King’s Road
and that nobody had wanted it, and she believed us and got upset all over
again.
Nicky Haslam gave us a memorable party, really paid us back for
entertaining him in New York. It was at Pat Harmsworth’s on Eaton Square.
Her husband owns Esquire and Soho News and the Evening Standard. The
English girls are so beautiful, I don’t know how the English made so many
aristocratic-looking people. Had a good time talking dirty to Clarissa Baring
and talked to a guy who said he invented the waterbed, but that now
everybody’s copied it so he’s on to a floating cloud bed. The Gilmans were
in town because of Ascot, and Sondra was talking about (laughs) “meeting
Elizabeth.” I talked to the widow of Laurence Harvey. Jimmy Connors was
cute, going around asking every girl if she wanted to go home with him and
fuck. Fred keeps on being so peculiar—trying to kiss me and crawl in bed
with me, so goony.
We went over to Nona Gordon Summers’s party on Glebe Place. She
bought a row of houses behind some other houses and turned it into one big
one with a one-way glass roof. I never used to like her, but I do now. She’s
elegant and nice. Her party was for Bob Dylan, and Bianca was raving
about him and how he’s after her. He had his bus parked outside. Nona told
him he should buy a painting of mine and he came right out and said he’d
already had one—the Silver Elvis I gave him—and that he’d traded it for a
sofa. So what Robbie Robertson told me a few weeks ago was true. And
then Dylan said that if I ever gave him another one, he’d never do it again.
He kept introducing me to the girls around him—really beautiful, dykey
girls who were lying all over Nona’s floor. Like Ronee Blakley types. It was
sort of like Arabian Nights because that’s the kind of house Nona’s is. Later
on, Bianca was complaining that Dylan had wanted to take her in the bus,
and how insulted she was that he hadn’t gotten a limo for her.
Wednesday, June 21, 1978—London
Sat around reading newspapers and we couldn’t believe it—the Evening
Standard actually did have an item about Fred trying to sell Bianca’s
autograph. Room service didn’t answer.
Cabbed to the ICA press conference ($4). Huge crowd, the show looked
really terrible. Did twenty interviews and some pictures. Then we went to
Marguerite Littman’s for lunch to meet Rock Hudson but his plane was
delayed and I had to leave to do more interviews. Marguerite invented
something great for dessert—chocolate soup! It’s orange juice and Grand
Marnier and chocolate, hot. Back to hotel (cab $4).
The ICA opening. Lots of punks. Ann Lambton and I went to sit where
the punk band was in the cafeteria and we had fun. Then Fred was
arranging a small party back at the Dorchester in one of the restaurants
there but it turned into forty-five people. Rock Hudson came in with his big
butch sixty-year-old boyfriend. It’s so funny when they have boyfriends
older than they are. Thomas Ammann took a picture of Rock and Rock
didn’t like it, but Fred said Rock was a bore, anyway. Jack Nicholson came,
he’s in London doing The Shining, and I guess we forgot to invite Shelley
Duvall. The kids were smoking joints and went out to the clubs—the
Embassy Club, Tramps, Annabel’s. But I was too tired.
Thursday, June 22, 1978—London—New York
London was just so much fun that I had to leave. Fred and Bob stayed on.
Nicky Haslam gave a nice dinner for Fred at a restaurant on the King’s
Road. And I think Fred’s really seeing a lot of Diana Vreeland. I mean, we
see a lot of her, and then he stays on and sees even more of her. And I can’t
figure out why she doesn’t have cancer yet. She’s been dyeing her hair now
for, what, seventy years? And I asked her why she doesn’t have wrinkles
and she said that her philosophy is to do exactly what she does.
Took the Concorde with Richard Weisman. Got home and glued myself,
went to the bank (cab $5). Tired all day long. Vincent had been out to
Montauk, said Mr. Winters wants to quit—he doesn’t like Tom Sullivan
being out there, I guess.
Victor called and said he was back with Halston, that they were back
being really good friends, that he had the limousine and he was out
shopping and life was wonderful all over again.
Monday, June 26, 1978
Have I said that I ran into Cyrinda Foxe recently? I think she made a big
mistake leaving David Johansen for the Aerosmith guy because David’s
going to be so big.
I sent Chris Makos out for a Konica camera ($175.55)—it’s a built-in
flash, I think it’s going to be great, built-in focus.
Cabbed to Martha Graham’s thing at Lincoln Center ($3). Martha came
out and made an hour speech, she must love to talk. She had on a beautiful
dark green Halston with bright green underneath, but the white gloves she
wears to cover her hands distract. I guess Halston is probably trying to
figure out what to do about that.
The first number was boring, but the sets were by Noguchi. Went for
drinks ($10). Then back for the second number—the sets were by Noguchi
again, they were the best thing—but that was boring, too. Drinks again, this
time doubles and triples ($20). Then the third number was “The Owl and
the Pussycat” that Liza was doing. It was a good number and if she’d sung,
it would’ve been better. Halston ran up on stage afterwards.
Tuesday, June 27, 1978
Had a meeting with Mr. Kahn about his portrait. He has a big nose and I
made it smaller but when he saw it he thought that he would like to have his
really big nose, that I should do it up really big. He asked his wife, “What
do you think, darling? Should it be my big schnoz?” and she said, “Darling,
it’s your big schnoz, and I love it, and whatever you think.”
Thursday, June 29, 1978
Had a date to have lunch with Truman and his boyfriend Bob MacBride to
discuss Interview. Cabbed to La Petite Marmite which is on 49th in the
Beekman Towers ($4). Truman said he’s starting to be normal again and
when I believed him he told me I was (laughs) “too naive.”
Truman was throwing his hands all over the place. I taped, and we
dished the whole lunch.
He said that after lunch he was going to his analyst and I asked why
someone like him would go to an analyst and he said because it was an old
friend and he didn’t want to hurt his feelings by not going.
Truman is so silly-looking, open-toe shoes and no sweater, and he said
he just decided that he’s going to start wearing anything. He said that Issey
Miyake sent him a coat and he just threw it on immediately—he was
written up in the papers when he wore it to Studio 54 with a white hat. We
had lots of drinks and it was fun, and then it got down to what Truman had
invited me for. Bob MacBride who he always said was a writer but who we
could never figure out what he did is now doing sculpture. He’s left his wife
and kids.
We went back to Truman’s place in U.N. Plaza. He’s redecorated, but the
bulldog’s torn off the buttons and the fringes from the furniture. And Bob
MacBride brought out his—toys. His art. It was little cut-outs, like you
make in kindergarten. You know? Like circles, and then you paste another
circle over it, and you make hexagons and things. That’s what he does. And
they wanted me to help him get a gallery. I said he’d just missed Leo
Castelli, that he just went out of town, but that when he got back we’d make
a lunch for Leo and him, and Leo will think that’s fun—lunch with Truman
Capote.
I told Truman I would tape him and we could write a Play-a-Day, he
could act out all the parts himself. (laughs) He could really do it—play his
grandmother and everything.
He gave me all the dirt, we dished Lee and Jackie. Lee’s got a new really
rich boyfriend in San Francisco, that’s why she’s spending time there.
Truman said the Ladies’ Home Journal offered him $10,000 to review a
movie but they wouldn’t tell him which one it would be, and then he found
out it was The Greek Tycoon so he turned it down. I think Truman likes me
because I like everything he doesn’t. He’s so nuts, you’re embarrassed
sitting there with him. And he’s always talking about how he’s getting a
hundred thousand for this and a million for that, but who knows.
He was thrilled, he said, with his Tom Snyder show a couple of months
ago, thought it was really one of his best. I don’t know why he doesn’t go
on The Gong Show.
Home to glue. Then picked up Catherine and went to Doubles to get the
bus to see Lucie Arnaz opening in Annie Get Your Gun out at the Westbury
Music Fair. Barry Landau was in charge, and I think he (laughs) invited all
the people in his apartment building. I really think he did. People were
going in for drinks and Gary Morton couldn’t get in because he didn’t have
a tie. The doorman was so dumb, I told him, “Don’t you know that’s Mr.
Lucy?” Lucille Ball looks so old but she has a beautiful body, and she really
was a beauty.
On the ride out, Bill Boggs did some announcing, and then Gary Morton
did some announcing, like, “Here we go by a garbage can,” things like that,
and finally after an hour and a half we arrived. The place looked empty, but
then when they saw Lucy, every old lady in pantsuits came swarming. God,
why do Americans dress so bad? Do they want to look unattractive so they
won’t get raped, or what? When did it start?
But Lucie Arnaz was good, and I just love Harve Presnell, he’s the one I
always really loved. He’s 6’5” and Tammy Grimes had an affair with him.
The show was really long, I don’t know why.
Oh, a woman came up and asked for my autograph and she said, “I’m
Gloria DeHaven,” and I looked at her and it was. So I think maybe there
were a lot of old stars that you just couldn’t tell. A kid was throwing up, and
it was funny because we all just stood there and watched him.
Friday, June 30, 1978
Prince Rupert Loewenstein said that Catherine’s stepmother or stepfather or
something had just inherited $50 million and they hadn’t told Catherine
about it yet, the English don’t bother. Catherine was going to meet Prince
Charles at dinner at her mother’s in London, her mother thought it might be
a nice match (newspapers and magazines $16).
Halston and Stevie said that Bianca’s living in Mick’s Cheyne Walk
house in London, but she’s not supposed to be there, so it’s boarded up, but
she’s still inside. They said it’s really small, just one room on top of another
room—smaller than Fred’s in New York.
Went over to Halston’s and Liza arrived around 12:00 with her new
boyfriend, Mark, the stage manager. They just met, after six months of
working on the show. He asked her if she wanted to see paradise, and she
said yes, she asked him where it was, and (laughs) he said in his room, so
they went there and fucked. He does sculpture in marble. He’s very good-
looking and very big—either Jewish or Italian, I can’t tell which. Halston
was sweet, trying to get Stevie to start an art collection and trying to
convince Liza she should have me do a nude portrait of her, so she was
doing her number, saying how could she go nude with her body, and she
was taking her tits out and the guy was getting turned on, and then she was
saying, “How would I cover my fuzzy?”
Saturday, July 1, 1978
It was a pretty day. I worked all afternoon and then Victor came by and we
went propping in the Village, we went to Utrillo’s, the used clothes store,
and left Interviews there. They said that they could sell old issues there if
we sent some over. Then we went into the second-hand shops along 6th
Avenue and one guy said, “Oh, you’re the one I sold the stuffed dog to.”
And then I went into another shop down the street and the woman there
said, “Oh, you’re the guy I sold the stuffed dog to.” Actually she sold it to
Fred. So I said, “How could two places sell us the same stuffed dog?” and
she said, “Oh, we used to be partners.” These people just know the price of
everything, every little piece of fifties junk has a price that they know! And
I mean the easiest thing would be to just buy something new and stay in
business for ten years and then sell it as an antique. Victor bought these
clear plastic chairs from ‘65—or maybe even later—for $150. Was that a
good price? What would something like that sell for new now? And they’re
nice-looking. Molded. It’s things like old Mickey Mouse stuff. Why not just
get it new now and don’t use it and then you’d have it new in ten years
instead of the old beat-up things they sell (photo supplies $16.96).
Sunday, July 2, 1978
It was a pretty day out but I stayed home, worked on some drawings.
Victor called all day long, wanted me to come down and see the dog he
wants to get, and go cruising and propping, but I thought it’d be a good
chance to relax and (laughs) think. Have I ever said that before? I had a
soggy mind. I’m working on invisible sculpture now, and paintings that
look like they move, like Duchamp’s “Nude Descending a Staircase.” I
think I’ll move some fruit around.
Oh, and Truman called me. He said he loves my idea of doing a Play-a-
Day and that he’s (laughs) already done eight. He said that by Wednesday
he’d be out of the hospital—he’s there for a blood check—and that we
should have lunch.
Tuesday, July 4, 1978
The Fourth of July. Raining out, watched The Brady Bunch then went to the
office (cab $3.50). Victor was calling, wanting me to see his dog-to-be. I
tried to talk him out of getting it. I told him he was a dog himself.
At 4:00 Victor and Rupert picked me up and we walked over to
McDonald’s to have lunch and hand out Interviews (lunch $9.50).
Talked about silkscreening while we cruised. The people in the Village
were so unattractive, God. They were all the leftovers who didn’t get taken
away to Fire Island for the holiday. Dropped Victor at the Morton Street
pier ($4.50).
Wednesday, July 5, 1978
Cabbed to Chembank ($4.50) then walked to the office and made some
phone calls. Then cabbed to La Petite Marmite ($3) to meet Truman and
Bob MacBride. They were on the wagon but I had orange juice and vodka. I
taped his ideas for plays, but oh God, (laughs) they were so boring. He said
to me, “I have so many ideas, I’ve just got so many I’ll tell you three plays
right now,” and then he told me the first one. He said [imitates]: “It’s called
The Greek Ideal, and it’s about a young man and his mother, and he’s a
Greek scholar and he’s going to Harvard and he’s maybe a little crippled.
His mother gives him a present before he goes away, she takes him to a
Greek island and it’s just the son, the mother, and a maid”—I guess there
was a maid—“and they’re sitting on the island and suddenly the
mmmoooooon rises and out of the moon come hundreds of little rats and
they eat him. And the mother is in a black hood.” Well (laughs), I didn’t
know what to say, I said, “Oh, that’s great, Truman, but does it have to be
rats? I mean, there was Ben and Willard and everything….”
And then Bob said to me, “Don’t you know that’s from Truman’s old
short story, ‘Walk Around the Block,’ which he did years ago and
everybody’s copied it?” And then Truman told the second play, which was
not as bad [imitates]: “A young man of sixteen down South marries a girl
of thirteen for her money, and he’s precocious and paranoid….” I didn’t
really get that one. And when he got to the third play he said (laughs), “It
will be improvised and we can do ANYTHING! It’ll be called Deep
Holes.” So then I said, “But gee, Truman, can’t I just tape you, the real
thing, and do plays about real people? Can’t I go to your gym with you?”
So we have a date for Friday at 11:00.
Then after lunch we went over to his apartment and there were two
copies of The New York Times magazine article on him that’s going to be
out this week, an advance copy. And the picture with it didn’t look like
Truman, it looked just like his mother. He was in a straw hat and a bedsheet
that made him look pregnant, standing in the grass. And the article says just
exactly what he did in his life, that he only likes men who have a wife and
lots of kids, because they were the family that Truman never had, that he
likes to become close to the kids. And it described Truman’s boyfriend John
O’Shea, the one that Bob and I met in Monte Carlo a few years ago. It was
funny, it wasn’t even talking about Bob MacBride and there he was fitting
the description, reading about it. Truman said, “No, not six kids, just four or
so is plenty.” Then Truman read the article and Bob took me into the
bedroom to show me more of his artwork. And Truman read for about an
hour. Then Bob said he needed a nap, then Truman said he had to leave, so I
asked him if he were going to his psychiatrist and he said no, to the gym.
His gym is right where the old Factory used to be, 47th and Second.
On the way out, in the lobby of his building, he held up the picture of
himself in the article for the elevator people. He said, “Look, it’s me. How
d’ya like it?” And he was talking about the article, it said the word
“decline,” and he said, “Decline? What decline? I’m the most written-about
writer in the world.” I guess he’s confusing written-about with writing.
Thursday, July 6, 1978
The woman from Detroit called and said the Henry Ford portrait is on for
later in the month. Oh God, Detroit. Maybe Henry Ford’s neighborhood
will be okay.
When I got home Barry Landau called and said he was uptown and he’d
pick me up to see Timbuktu. We went backstage and I gave Eartha some
Interviews, told her we’d like to take pictures of her daughter, Kitt
McDonald, and do an interview with her. We saw the show, drinks at
intermission ($10). Barry’s been walking Eartha’s saint bernard and he
didn’t tell her but he and his friend Greg or Craig took the saint bernard
down to Christopher Street for a gay walk.
Friday, July 7, 1978
Went over to meet Truman at U.N. Plaza at 11:00 (cab $3). He came down
in the elevator. I had the tape on. He was talking about Babe Paley, she just
died and he was upset, he’d been calling around trying to get lilies of the
valley for her. He said he hated Bill Paley for being mean to her or
something.
We walked into the gym and people were looking at us, we looked
peculiar. Then we went into the room for Tony to massage him and Truman
took off his clothes and I (laughs) took pictures. He’s fat but he’s losing
weight. On the way over, his pants were falling down, like a loose diaper—
you could see the crack in his ass.
Then after lunch Truman took Bob MacBride, who was with us by then,
and me to his psychiatrist. Truman had told him that I was going to be
taping so there (laughs) was Truman on the couch, and he was talking about
his father and his mother and his stepfather and how his father took his
money and all that crap and the psychiatrist was saying all the things that
they say in the movies—“Now let’s get back to that dream you had.” And
Truman got up and looked out the window and then at us, and he had tears
in his eyes, he was sort of crying, and then when he was finished he
bounced up and said, “Wasn’t that wonderful acting?”
Then they were going home for “a little nap” and I finally realized that
“a little nap” must mean sex with Bob—they must do it every afternoon and
I guess I’ve been interfering—but I think Bob likes it better that I am, it
gives him an excuse not to.
So we went back to U.N. Plaza. I was outside the door trying to tape
Truman in the bathroom pissing, but he closed the door.
Then Bob said it was time for dinner. It was just like a vacation, like
being in the country—right after lunch you have dinner. Truman does really
eat only one meal a day, though, I’ve watched him.
Before we left Truman had a stiff vodka. Then we went over to the
restaurant across the street called Antolotti’s. Bob fell asleep at the table and
Truman told him to go home.
Truman told me that his fantasy is to make it with the psychiatrist, that
that would get their relationship to a “new level”—that then he would be
“in power.” I was going to ask him didn’t he think it was so old-fashioned
to be thinking that way, but I didn’t, I’ll save that for (laughs) another
session.
He told me that he blew John Huston forty times and then he told me
about Humphrey Bogart. He said that Bogart was “reeeally scared” of him
and that one night he carried Bogart up to bed, and tucked him in and said
to him, “You’ve got to let me do it, Humphrey.” And (laughs) he said
Bogart was really nervous and said, “Okay, but don’t put it in your mouth.”
So then Truman said to him, “Listen, Humphrey, we went to the same
school, Trinity, and I know you must have done it there.” But I don’t think
they did both go to Trinity. Truman makes up so much. Then later, Truman
said, they became best friends and he said once they were staying together
at somebody like David Selznick’s house, and Bogart jumped into his bed
with a hard-on. But Truman said he told him it was (laughs) just too early in
the morning.
Oh, and he said that John O’Shea stole the whole Answered Prayers
novel, that that’s why it wasn’t done, but I think he’s making that up, too.
And he says he doesn’t want to live in the present because his book ends
in 1965 and he’s trying to finish it. But when could he work?
Oh. And what gets him really upset and nervous is anything anal. If I ask
him about fist-fucking he gets so upset. He says he doesn’t want to talk
about it.
But I mean, how could anybody make it with Truman? God, I mean I
could never do it with Truman. (laughs) God … (dinner $52.15).
Saturday, July 8, 1978
Victor called and said he had parasites. He was staying up at Elsa Peretti’s,
she was just back in town, and he was seeing Dr. Brown, the boy-disease
specialist.
Sunday, July 9, 1978
Truman called and said he missed me, to come for dinner. This was the day
his picture was the cover of The New York Times magazine section. He said
he had the phone off the hook, but I don’t know whether to believe that. At
7:00 I went over to U.N. Plaza, took eight tapes with me and a camera (cab
$2). I talked to Bob MacBride for a while and then Truman made a phone
call to Jack Dunphy so I could tape it. Jack was his boyfriend for thirty
years. But he hadn’t seen the article in the Times yet, so he didn’t have any
comments.
Truman also told me he’d talked to Gerald Clarke, the guy who’s been
writing the book on him for something like five years, and Clarke wanted to
know how the girl who wrote the article got Jack Dunphy in it when he
couldn’t, and Truman said it was because she’d run into him on the beach, it
was an accident. Truman said Clarke called him, but I think Truman
probably called Clarke. Anyway, if Clarke did call him, then his phone
wasn’t off the hook, so either way he was lying.
Then we went over to Antolotti’s and got pizza. And the drinks there
with the vodka and grapefruit juice really do put weight on you, I’ve
noticed. I was getting drunk. Then I walked him home, I had Truman on my
arm. It’s funnier to see Bob MacBride walk him home on his arm— that’s
really creepy. But when I walk him on mine, it’s creepy, too. And he’s
weaving, and he’s so strong he was pushing me over. Went home (cab $3).
Got three full-sided tapes out of the evening.
Monday, July 10, 1978
Cabbed up to 44th and Sixth Avenue with Vincent ($3) to the studio of Sire
Records to do a commercial for the Talking Heads. I had to do it about
twenty times. Afterwards I told Vincent that I can never be an actor—I just
don’t have it, I get tongue-tied, something happens. All I had to say was:
“Tell ‘em Warhol sent ya,” and it came out like I was reading it every time.
Victor called and said he had to stay in a wheelchair for a month. He had
all these doctors and his leg just kept getting more swollen, until he got an
eighty-year-old South American who gave him a shot, so he was ordering
an ambulance to take him to Studio 54 for the party for Elton John.
Tuesday, July 11, 1978
Victor was at the office waiting for me in a wheelchair, acting very peculiar.
He had a friend with him, Andreas, a rich kid from South America who
was telling him the same things I was—that he should go home and stop
running around. He shouldn’t be letting the blood run all over his body, he
should keep his leg up.
Friday, July 14, 1978
Went over to Doc Cox to show him the pills Jay Johnson brought back from
Japan. They sell them over there, they’re pills people take to make their
liver digest food. He looked at it and he couldn’t read Japanese so he said,
“Take them, I guess.”
Picked up Bob to go meet Truman and Bob MacBride at La Petite
Marmite (cab $3.50).
Truman brought another Sunday Times, the one coming this week, the
second part of the article on him, but this time it wasn’t the cover—he’d
said it was going to be but it wasn’t. I had him autograph it and give it to
me. He says he’s going to give another party for his 540 best friends and
it’d be in a loft and the women would wear veils. Truman picked up the tab.
Cabbed to the office ($3). Susan Blond sent a limo for Truman and me
to go to the Palladium to see Rick Derringer and another act. They took us
upstairs to a dressing room where we found a bottle of Jack Daniel’s and
some milk and cookies, and Truman fixed himself a Jack Daniel’s with milk
and this rock and roll manager-type came in the room and started
screaming, “Clear the room. Clear the room, we have to talk money.” So
everybody left but us, we didn’t know where to go, and he said to Truman,
“Didn’t you hear me say to clear the room?” And so I said, “But he’s
Truman Capote,” and Truman said, “But he’s Andy Warhol.” And the
manager said, “Oh, sorry.”
Sunday, July 16, 1978
Barbara Allen called me in the morning to go out to Forest Hills to the
tennis matches. Richard Weisman had to go out early because of something
to do with ABC television. I was going to go but when I saw how foggy and
grey it was I decided I’d watch it on TV and get some work done at home.
But I went to church, then came home and watched the matches on TV. It
was Nastase vs. Vitas Gerulaitis. I was for Vitas and he did win.
Then Barbara and Bob called and said that Vitas was having a dinner for
everyone out at the River Café in Brooklyn, on the barge, and they talked
me into going. They said they were coming to pick me up. At 10:00 they
did. Barbara was showing us the ring Nastase gave her. Then Nastase came
in with a beautiful girl, a model, and Barbara went upstairs and cried. And
then Richard Weisman was saying how silly Barbara was to be upset when
she knew Nastase was married with kids and everything anyway. Truman
said he had a really rich guy for Barbara and that she’d have three planes
and all the money in the world and a house in Mexico, and that cheered her
up.
We were there until 2:00. Vitas paid. He said he’d just been in London
and while he was in a club talking to Ringo Starr, Stevie Rubell kept pulling
on his arm and saying, “Come on, Vitas, we have to go, Bianca wants to
leave,” and Ringo said, “Who’s the little midget you’re taking orders from
now?” Vitas said Stevie’s really insecure when he’s not in his own club.
And Stevie doesn’t know about Europe at all—he still thinks Gianni
Agnelli’s name is “Johnny Antonelli,” that’s what he always calls him.
Once he said, “Johnny Antonelli, he’s the one who really owns Fiat—not all
those Rattazzi kids.”
Monday, July 17, 1978
I had to think about what drag to go in to Halston’s party later on, so I sent
Robyn out for a wig and he came back with the perfect one—a grey Dolly
Parton ($20.51), and I put it on and wore the dress I’d once designed for a
Rizzoli art fashion show that was parts of six different designers’ dresses all
sewn together. Went over to Halston’s. The first person we saw was Stevie
who was dressed like Liza—he thought—in red sequins, and he looked
awful. All of the waiters who look so good in Studio 54 just looked like
tramps at Halston’s. Stevie kept pulling out his cock from under his dress
and I was surprised, it was big. Barbara Allen was the best, she came as a
man in a jockstrap. With a jacket and a mustache. Stevie’s boa caught on
fire and he would have disintegrated if some fairy hadn’t put it out. Halston
in drag looked like Diane de Beauvau. I guess now it’s easy to see why he
liked her so much, that’s the look he likes, sort of fat-faced and chubby.
Tuesday, July 18, 1978
Truman’s picture was in the paper from going on The Stanley Siegel Show
drunk. I didn’t see the show. He’d told Stanley not to ask him anything
about drinking but then he went on the show drunk.
Thursday, July 20, 1978
I went to a doctor in the morning for one of those terrible once-a-year
physicals where they do everything. When it’s the same nurse it’s not so
bad, but Rosemary is away and Doc Cox has a male assistant, and so
(laughs) it felt like you were at the Anvil. First I got a pelvic X-ray and then
a proctoscopy, that’s what it’s called, and it was too embarrassing. Doc Cox
went out of the room to see a lady patient and she spilled water on him so
when he came back it looked like he’d peed on himself. The Doc was
sweet. Then I picked up some things for the office ($15.21) and got down
there by 2:30. The lunch was for Eartha Kitt, and Barry Landau had brought
Polly Bergen down, too.
Brigid had already done her Eartha Kitt imitation for Eartha and Ronnie
was looped, saying it was his “last day” on the job—Fred had screamed at
him the day before that the place was too dirty, that he wasn’t cleaning up
enough. Ronnie and Eartha were fighting and nobody pulled him out of the
room. The fight was over James Dean’s personality and whether he was
“difficult.” I guess Eartha was thinking she was a rebel, too, so she was
standing up for James Dean, and it’s not the same thing at all—she did it for
civil rights and James Dean was just a person not showing up for work. And
the fight wouldn’t have been bad if Polly Bergen hadn’t started sticking up
for Ronnie, saying he was right, and then when Polly left the room Eartha
said something like that she was full of shit, and then when Eartha stepped
away once Polly said something like the same thing about Eartha, but not in
those words.
Bob thought Eartha was interesting enough to do a story on, but I don’t
want to hear about the White House, that story’s so old I don’t want to hear
about it. We made a date for the next day at Quo Vadis to have lunch with
her and her daughter, Kitt, and I gave Bob the assignment of keeping Barry
away. And Ronnie decided to stay on. Victor didn’t come by to see me, so
that was like a vacation, but he sent me over a present—a cock ring, his.
We tried to get Truman on the phone, but he didn’t answer.
Got dressed and picked up Catherine. Her English friend Jamie Neidpath
was with her, he’s a land baron. He looks twenty but he’s thirty. He dresses
in funny clothes, long stringy silk ties like the Beatles used to wear and
frock coats, and I asked him why he dressed funny and he said because he
just decided once that this was the way he was going to dress forever, and
so he has.
Cabbed to the Bottom Line ($6). Steve Paul was there, I think he
manages David Johansen. Lou Reed was at the next table and Catherine
was madly in love with him, that was why she wanted to come to this thing.
And Fran Lebowitz was at another table with her arm around some girl
(laughs) so I got a few snaps of that. And oh, David Johansen is so cute,
he’s just so adorable. The only thing he does wrong is jump around, he
should learn not to do that like Lou learned not to. Lou invited us over to
his place.
It’s on Christopher Street, between Sixth and Seventh, sort of where the
Voice used to be, upstairs from a bagel store. When we were going in the
kids around were whispering, “There’s Lou Reed.” He tells them, “Go kill
yourself.” Isn’t that great? The two dachshunds he got after he saw me with
mine are so adorable—Duke and Baron. He’s sort of separated from Rachel
the drag queen but not completely, they have separate apartments. Where
Lou is, it’s actually more of a house. It’s a rent-controlled thing he got from
a girlfriend, six rooms and he only pays $485 a month. The best room is a
long skinny bathroom, 2’ X 12’ and he said he was thinking of changing it
but I said not to, that it’s really great that way. And oh, Lou’s life is
everything I want my life to be. I mean, every room has every electronic
gadget in it—a big big big big TV, a phone answerer that you hear when the
phone rings, tapes, TVs, Betamaxes, and he’s so sweet and so funny at the
same time, so together, it’s just incredible. And his house is very neat. He
has a maid come in … well, I guess it does smell a little of dog shit, but…
Then he was on the phone and he ran a tape of his concert and it was him
trying to get the old Billy Name Factory Foto look, very contrasty.
Catherine went downstairs and got grapefruit juice and bagels and orange
juice. Lou only had a funny pint-size bottle of scotch.
Friday, July 21, 1978
Bob MacBride called me and said he wanted to see me, but I didn’t want to
see him alone without Truman and I said I’d call him back but I didn’t, so
now I’ll have to lie and say I tried but I couldn’t get him.
Monday, July 24, 1978
Bob MacBride came for lunch, and I had McDonald’s ($4). He’s worried
about Truman, he says he’s sure he’s going to commit suicide. He says
Truman is checked into a private hospital room in the same building as my
dentist, Dr. Lyons, at 115 East 61st Street, but that nobody knows it.
Truman’s upset because everybody’s saying he’s washed up. Bob said that
on the morning of The Stanley Siegel Show he dropped Truman off there
himself and he was fine, so he thinks Truman must have taken a Thorazine
or something. Truman says he doesn’t remember anything about the show. I
keep trying to get it out of him if Truman is writing the Answered Prayers
book or not, and he won’t say yes or no.
C.Z. Guest sent her husband over yesterday, Bob MacBride said, to try
to convince Truman to go to a hospital in Minnesota. I didn’t know if he
wanted me to give him advice, or what. I didn’t know what to tell him so I
just said, “If Truman goes to the hospital, when you go to visit him, try to
get me in.” I’ll tape it. Because you can’t stop people—if he’s going to kill
himself, he’s going to do it.
Tuesday, July 25, 1978
Forgot to say that the night before what I watched on TV was the Miss
Universe pageant.
Miss USA was actually the best, she was from Hawaii and she looked
like Jerry Hall, but when it came to the question, “What do you think of the
United States?” instead of saying something serious like “It’s the most free
nation that glues together everything” she blew it and she said something
like “Oh, I love the beaches!” Miss South Africa won, she looked like a
brunette version of Miss USA but she gave a serious answer, and Miss
Colombia was too stoned to talk. (laughs) No, I’m only kidding, she wasn’t
… but they had around seventy-five girls and most of them were from
South American countries you never heard of. The ex-Miss Universe looked
really black, but maybe it was my TV.
I cabbed to the office to pick up Vincent, we had to go to a lunch for 600
people at the Plaza given by Gerry Grinberg the head of the North
American Watch Company. The paid speakers were Art Buchwald and ex-
President Gerald Ford (cab $4).
And Mr. Grinberg took me over to see President Ford and he said, “Nice
to meet you.” And I told him that he’d already met me at the White House
and he said, “Oh yes, of course.” He looked sort of out of it. I asked him
(laughs) how his wife was, and he said she was out shopping and I said, “At
Halston’s?” and he said (laughs) yes, that maybe she was there. But once he
got started on his speech he didn’t seem so out of it at all, he remembered
the whole speech. It was a good lunch, steak and potatoes.
And on the way out we went into the Teuscher candy store in the lobby
of the Plaza—the one where they fly the candy in every day or something—
and I wanted to sell them an ad in Interview, but I wound up buying $200
worth of candy instead.
I talked to Ronnie. He told me he’s now going to one of those halfway
houses to stop taking drugs and drinking. He said he hadn’t slept at all in a
week. I asked him if he was having trouble with Gigi and he said that well,
yes, that she’d thrown the wedding ring out the window. I don’t know why
she ever got married, she’s always going to run around, and Ronnie wants
her to be like his mother in Brooklyn who never leaves the house. Now
she’s styling or doing makeup on the Brian DePalma movie and that’s going
to lead to other things, so …
Went home and called Truman, but there was no answer, I should have
called before I left for work.
Wednesday, July 26, 1978
Went to meet Truman and Bob MacBride at La Petite Marmite. Truman’s
just checked out of the hospital. He said that the Guests are taking him to
Minnesota to a hospital there to dry out some more. He said he got about
100 letters about his Stanley Siegel Show and he read me the one from
Stanley Siegel, which was so disgusting, saying how great Truman had been
and you just know if he really cared he wouldn’t have let him go on, and
this one show really put Stanley Siegel on the map, it got him national
attention.
Thursday, July 27, 1978
After work I just stayed in. Watched 20/20 and instead of saying, “In the
future everyone will be famous for fifteen minutes,” it was so funny to hear
Hugh Downs say, “As Andy Warhol once said, in fifteen minutes everybody
will be famous.” People on TV always get some part wrong, like—“In the
future fifteen people will be famous.”
Oh, and I forgot to say that Truman really is looking more and more like
his bulldog. He sits there and rubs his eyes as if he were kneading dough,
and then he takes his hands away and they’re all red—the whites are red,
the rims are red, he really looks like his dog, really drooping.
Friday, July 28, 1978
It was a slow day at the office. We sat around eating lots of fruit that we’d
gotten for lunches so it wouldn’t go bad over the weekend.
Saturday, July 29, 1978
Jed and I walked over to the Pierre and then we went to the Oyster Bar in
Grand Central and it was closed and then to La Petite Marmite and it was
closed, and then we cabbed to Woods but it was closed ($3). So we went
next door to La Relais because we wanted to see if it was good and when
we went in, it seemed like everyone was there—Charles Collingwood, and
Helen Frankenthaler and she was awful, she always is and she always was.
She was with a European gallery owner. Denise Hale was in the restaurant
and I asked Helen if she’d like to meet her and she said, “Why? Would it
give Denise a thrill?” I asked her if she were going to Washington on
Wednesday for the Móndales’ party for artists whose work is in the vice-
president’s house, and she said she was. I’m going down with Fred. I asked
her how her big silkscreen was—I heard she’d done a big one—and she
said, “I don’t do silkscreens—I leave that to you.” And so I was confused if
she did one or not, so then I said, “I mean for your multiples,” and she said,
“I don’t do multiples.” She was awful. Well, she married Motherwell to get
a start. Her work’s terrible.
Went to the movies (cab $3) to see Patti D’Arbanville in Big Wednesday.
She had three lines: 1) “Oh my God” 2) “Uh-uh-mm” 3) “Eh-oo-oo.”
Sunday, July 30, 1978
Bob called, just back from Montauk where he said Catherine drove him
crazy.
I guess Tom really is in love with that Danish model, Winnie. And Ulli
Lommel is going to shoot a movie out there, Cocaine Cowboys. He’s
married a rich wife, Sukey Love.
Wednesday, August 2, 1978—New York—
Washington, D.C.
Life really does repeat itself. The old songs come back in a new way and
the kids think they’re new and the old people remember and it’s a way of
keeping people together, I guess, a way of living.
We got the Washington shuttle, after getting magazines and newspapers
($3). The shuttle was packed, it always is. Paid for Fred’s and my ticket
($81). Then got a cab to the Madison Hotel ($6.50), checked the baggage
($3). Cab to the Móndales’ ($4). Everything is so expensive. It started me
noticing inflation for the first time, because everything on the menu at the
hotel was actually double. A minute steak that used to be $7.50 is $15 now.
And all your life you’re taught—you’re brought up on money, on pennies
and dollars, and the inflation used to come in pennies, but now a dollar is
like a penny, things go up in dollars.
Washington was hot and sticky. Joan and Fritz Mondale didn’t have any
real big artists. Just Helen Frankenthaler and me. And the reason I was
included was because they had the Southwest collection and my Blue
Flowers was in Mrs. de Menil’s gift.
They live in the same house the Rockefellers had when they were vice-
presidents, but of course their Max Ernst bed is gone from the place now.
Joan put me on her left and an Indian guy on her right. And then Joan
was a little drunk, I think, and she started being very sad and saying, “Well,
this is probably the last time we’ll see each other because you’re a famous
artist and you’re going to be around for a long time, but they just took a poll
in New Jersey and we’re the lowest we’ve ever been, we’re lower than
Nixon right before they got him out, and we’re slipping fast.” I told her that
things would pick up.
Then we saw the treasury guy over in a corner and I said to Joan that he
should make dollar bills that have braille for the blind newsdealers like they
do in Switzerland and she said that was a wonderful idea, that I should tell
him, but then she got to him first and told him herself. The dinner was so
bad. What ruined food in America? Was it those magazines like Good
Housekeeping and Family Circle and McCall’s? They could have great
simple steak-and-potatoes dinners and instead they have these fancy
concoctions. Like veal with tuna sauce on top of it and capers. It was a
“tented affair,” and that always costs so much, every time you put up a tent.
And they had every kind of hard liquor, which you don’t get now at the
White House. Then around 10:00 Helen Frankenthaler slipped a note over
asking us if we wanted to leave.
Then we had to go back to the hotel, and I’d been telling Fred how
horrible Helen Frankenthaler was, how awful she was to me last weekend,
and then suddenly she was changed. She said, “I’ve been so awful lately, I
don’t know what’s wrong. I’m really going to be nice tonight.” And then
she was! Isn’t it amazing how a person can just change like “that” because
they decide to?
And we had drinks with her in the hotel. Fred was bored with her but he
paid for the drinks anyway. She was talking about her maid wanting $300
for four days’ work, she’s live-in. She probably just wants to leave Helen.
Helen has three or four people working for her, she said. And she hated the
wine, although Fred didn’t see anything wrong with it.
Thursday, August 3, 1978—New York
Went to the office, everyone was zonked. After Ronnie’s whole speech that
he was going to A.A., there he was, zonked. And when he gets that way he’s
so nutty.
I was photographing Bob Colacello and Ronnie would take up the
pictures and say, “Bob, these are awful. You have three chins,” and Bob
said, “No I don’t, I’ve lost two of them, I look good today.” And it was true,
Bob did look good, but Ronnie was going on, picking up each one and
saying how horrible it was.
Brigid was depressed. Only Vincent was happy because some checks
came in.
Victor came by, his hair was carrot blond and he was going to go for
white to be like me, but with dark eyebrows. He’s been up for three days
because he bought some good coke.
I got back some of my pictures of Truman, lying on the psychiatrist’s
couch. He looked like he doesn’t have teeth in my pictures. Does he have
teeth?
Friday, August 4, 1978
Brigid was back transcribing the Truman tapes. I haven’t called him out in
Minnesota yet.
Saturday, August 5, 1978
I cabbed to the nail place ($3.20). Getting my nails done was $46.80 plus I
gave a $10 tip to the Cuban lady who told me all about herself and did a
rotten job on my nails. They serve drinks there to the customers, and one
boy who works there said he did Candy Darling’s first perm when she was
fifteen. I wonder how old Candy was when she stopped being Jimmy
Slattery and just wore dresses all the time.
Walked back to the house. Catherine called from Montauk and she was
sober. She said that Tom had about thirty people out there shooting Cocaine
Cowboys and that the toilets were backing up. She pretended to know that
Tom had just married Winnie.
And Mr. Winters called Vincent, going crazy about all the people. Tom
moved out to the hotel at the yacht club, so Catherine was happy—she
spent the day there ordering from room service and watching TV.
Sunday, August 6, 1978
It was my birthday but I didn’t think of it until Vincent called and reminded
me.
I thought I was going to see Ain’t Misbehavin’ for the Actor’s Fund but I
was a week too early. So I called Tom Cashin and we got tickets to the
American Dance Machine (cab $3, tickets 4 X $13 = $52). Raining. A few
fans handed me notes.
Monday, August 7, 1978
Victor told me he had a secret—that Halston was giving me a surprise
birthday party and it included a great gift that I would love. Then he left to
go dye his hair.
Glued myself and went to pick up Catherine at 8:50 but as we were
leaving her place Tom Sullivan called and said he’d pick us up on the
corner in his limo and we waited there but he didn’t come. Then we had to
leave to be at “21” (cab $2).
When we got to “21” Jay Mellon was sitting there, alone, no one had
arrived for my birthday dinner. Then we had drinks for an hour, and still no
one had arrived. The dinner was supposed to be at 9:00 and it was 10:00
already and still nobody was there. Catherine went upstairs to see if maybe
they were in the room up there, but they weren’t. Then I went out to call
Eartha and see where she and her daughter, Kitt, were, and Kitt answered
the phone and she said her mother had gone out with Barry Landau! So I
mean, I said thanks a lot and hung up.
Finally about 10:00 Lou Reed arrived, he gave me a great present, a one-
inch TV, and he was so adorable, so sober, and Jay and I were in dark suits
but everybody else was light—Lou had a whole suit on with a bow tie.
Then Fred arrived with Nenna Eberstadt, and they were both in white
and Nenna was a little embarrassed, she gave me a little present. And then
Tom Sullivan arrived and gave me the shirt off his back and made me wear
it. And Winnie isn’t really that beautiful, I was surprised he would marry
her. She does need a green card, though. But Catherine does, too.
Halston arrived with Dr. Giller and Stevie, all in white. And everyone
was nervous because it did just look like all family, and we went to a room
and it was really pretty, and Catherine put people together well, and it was
thirteen people I think. I was drunk and nervous. The dinner was good,
Catherine had ordered duck and Senegalese soup, and at a certain point
Stevie said that he knew Lou from Syracuse University and he said all these
details, so that was funny they went to school together, and they’re both
from Long Island, too.
Then a cake came and the waiter sang “Happy Birthday.” Victor never
showed up, I think he was embarrassed about his hair, and then Halston
excused himself to go to his house, he said that he just wanted to get ready
for drinks, to meet us there, and we went over I think in Tom’s limousine, I
can’t even remember, I was so drunk, and when we got to Halston’s it was a
big crowd and I got a singing telegram from a lady in a bowler hat from Bill
Dugan and Nancy North, and she really belted it out, she was a good singer.
And there were Barry and Eartha! I couldn’t believe it. She’s so stupid. I
guess that’s her problem—she didn’t know the difference between dinner
and this, and that’s what’s wrong with her—I mean, she works hard, but she
wouldn’t have to work so hard as she does to get what she wants if she
weren’t so stupid. It was the nicest kids there. Pat Ast was there, she’s in
town, and everybody from the office. And the first present was Stevie
brought in a garbage can and it was filled with 2,000 one-dollar bills, and
he dumped it on me and it really was the best present. Victor gave me a
hardhat.
And Halston gave me a white fur coat but then he said it looked small
and he took it away and said that he’d give me another one later, so I don’t
know. Jed was trying to fix his sister Susan up with Jay Mellon. Susan is
looking so pretty now.
Left about 4:00, left everybody at the party.
Tuesday, August 8, 1978
Ronnie came in to work in the morning, late, and then afterwards Gigi came
in screaming what did he do with her cats, and he shocked the office. He
said that when he got home from Halston’s he found the two cats and one of
them was choking on a sponge that it had tried to eat because it was so
hungry, and the other was clawing at the one who was choking, so he took
them into the bathtub and drowned them and then threw their little bodies in
the incinerator. He said he was going to go down and divorce Gigi. He said
he hadn’t fed the cats or himself in five days because he didn’t have any
money, and when Brigid said why didn’t he just borrow some, he said he
was “too proud.” I think he starved them to get back at Gigi. I knew they
never should have gotten married. How could you kill two innocent cats? I
couldn’t even look at him.
Then the Carimatis called and invited us for dinner, but it was the Italian
style of “I’ll call you and you call me before 5:00 and then I’ll call you and
you call me back before 6:00.” They said they could get us 40 percent
discounts on anything on Madison Avenue because it was all Italians now.
Wednesday, August 9, 1978
Went to Halston’s at 10:00 to be photographed for Newsweek in the white
fur coat. Fred picked me up and carried the garbage can full of money out
into the street for me. As we left, about fifteen Negro kids with brooms
were going to the park to sweep up, some city clean-up program to give
them jobs, I guess. They didn’t look too happy. One of them had a shovel
and was cutting down every flower when he got to it. They were pretty
brooms, too. New. They didn’t recognize me except for one little girl who
ran all the way back and kept saying, “You’re Andy Warhol, you’re Andy
Warhol,” and staring at me and at Fred with his garbage can (cab to
Olympic Tower $3).
Saturday, August 12, 1978
The Pope died, and Brigid was calling, wanting me to watch the funeral on
TV with her. When they brought the Pope’s body out, everybody standing
around there in Rome clapped, all these people, because it was such a good
production. There’ve been 262 popes already. Isn’t that a lot? They’re
usually so old when they get to be Pope that they only last about fifteen
years.
Sunday, August 13, 1978
Went to church. It was hot and muggy. Got tickets for the Actor’s Fund
performance of Ain’t Misbehavin (6 X $17.50). Cabbed to theater ($2) to
meet Jay Johnson, Tom Cashin, Amy Sullivan, and Ricky Clifton. Ricky
was asked to leave Halston’s the other night when Halston found him
looking in his closets. He wasn’t stealing, he was just poking around, and he
was drunk and fresh with Halston, it was 4 A.M.
Saw the show. And now the Negroes know how to do satires on
themselves, and when you get that sophisticated, it means you’re part of the
community, so now they are.
Wednesday, August 16, 1978
The big drama was Mr. Winters calling and saying there were three
detective cars and three police cars out in Montauk. The townspeople hate
Tom because he rides a horse into town and the band has drugs. Finally it
turned out it was really nothing, that the plumber’s assistant had told the
police he saw so many guns around, and so Tom had to talk his way out of
it, telling the police about the movie they were shooting and that they
needed the guns for it.
Thursday, August 17, 1978
Martial law was declared in two cities in Iran, so the festival we were
supposed to go to on September 8 is cancelled and I’m so relieved.
Sunday, August 20, 1978
I went out and walked Archie and Amos. The new dog-shit pick-up law
isn’t so bad. It was pretty easy, they did it next to the trash cans and I just
threw it in.
Monday, August 21, 1978
It was such a pretty day. Hot and dry and breezy. Started walking downtown
handing out Interviews over on the East Side. Stopped in some shops and
bought some ideas for drawings. (Sarsaparilla $49.00) It was Monday so
most places were closed. I was looking for plastic fruit, that’s what I’m
drawing. Then cabbed to office ($2.50).
I was supposed to go out to Montauk on Wednesday to be in Cocaine
Cowboys but it’s been changed to next week. My role is to play myself
inteviewing Jack Palance in the movie.
Tuesday, August 22, 1978
Walked over to the office, and Brigid was transcribing away. She’d just
come to the Humphrey Bogart part of the Truman tape, and the John Huston
affair. Oh, and the Sam Goldwyn affair. According to Truman, Sam
Goldwyn went after him one day and said, “You’ve been teasing me for
years,” and then he gave Truman a big long tongue kiss. He wanted Truman
to go down on him, but Truman wouldn’t, but now he thinks it might have
been fun. Truman said he said, “What about Frances?” And that Sam
Goldwyn said, “Forget Frances.”
And when I was recording this tape I’d purposely talked nice about
Brigid so she’d hear it while she typed—I said she used to be 350 pounds
and now she was 125 and beautiful. So she was a happy worker.
I was painting in the back when I heard a big commotion and it was Bob
screaming at Catherine, he had freaked out. He was checking the galleys for
the new issue and saying that she hadn’t corrected Fran Lebowitz’s writing,
and she said that Fran didn’t want anyone to correct her. Bob said if
Catherine wouldn’t do it, he would. He was holding a glass of vodka in his
hand.
Wednesday, August 23, 1978
At 12:00 Bob wasn’t at the office so I called him at home and I woke him. I
told him how did he expect any of the kids at Interview to work hard when
he was still in bed at noon, and then he said that he’d rush right down. Later
I heard him telling Brigid that he’d met a deaf-mute and that he was with
him when I called.
Brigid was typing away and then I caught her eating candy and when I
did, she went crazy, she felt so awful, I had to quiet her down. I told her,
“Now, now, it’s not so bad, you only had fifteen pieces, the day’s still
young, just take it calm and easy.”
Picked up Catherine and Jed in a cab ($4) and went to Madison Square
Garden to see Bruce Springsteen (tickets $19). We’d gone on Monday
night, too, but only saw the last few seconds of the show. So this time we
got there right before he started and we sat right down in the orchestra,
30,000 kids in the place. They were all young and cute and why doesn’t
Interview appeal to them? It should, it’s young and modern. My head must
not be in the same place because they were all jumping up and screaming
for Bruce and I was the only one who didn’t.
Oh, and Susan Blond called me earlier and said that a girl had called her
up because she was upset because Bruce Springsteen was upset because he
said I’d taken his picture on Monday night. She said that he doesn’t like
anybody to take pictures—that his girlfriend’s a photographer and even she
can’t take his picture. But the funny thing is, I’d just gotten my contact
sheets back and I was sitting there trying to figure out what night I was
looking at and who I’d taken a picture of—I didn’t even recognize that it
was Bruce Springsteen—I thought it was Al Pacino. I’d forgotten where I
went! Why is Bruce Springsteen big, though? He talks the dumb way. Like
Sylvester Stallone. Is that why these people are big? Because they talk that
way and people identify? He does work really hard.
Friday, August 25, 1978
The main event was Catherine Guinness crying, telling me that she was
leaving Interview, that she got a job at Viva. And she’s fat again, so she’ll be
leaving as fat as she came. But then I found out she cried for everyone, so it
wasn’t special that she cried for me. I guess she’s maybe scared, because
she’s going to be senior editor over there. It turns out maybe it’s the job
they offered Bob last year. They came after her and then she went after it.
Jonathan Lieberson and Steve Aronson helped her write a paper on how she
would change their magazine. Everyone at Interview is so thrilled to see her
go. I was surprised—I didn’t know they felt that way.
Saturday, August 26, 1978
Went over to the Plaza to interview Shaun Cassidy. The interview was
terrible because he’s got to keep it really clean because his fans are young.
He has dark circles under his eyes so we think he has a secret life. He’s very
tall. He gave stock answers. We kept asking him how it felt to be an idol
with thousands of girls screaming, and he was insisting that it didn’t change
you, and then we walked through the lobby, through the screaming girls,
and (laughs) he changed. He was so different. The limo came and he had a
whole different personality.
We went downtown because he was going to be photographed for
Interview by Barry McKinley. Shaun just turns into something else when
he’s being photographed, something just happens to him, he just falls in
love with himself. And Barry has a different style of saying things when
he’s photographing—instead of saying things like Scavullo and those
people say, like, “Marvelous, marvelous,” Barry says (laughs), “Give it to
me, motherfucker. Push it out. Push out all you can.” “What kind of drug
are you on, motherfucker?” It was so unbelievable that I went and taped it.
Later at Madison Square Garden in Shaun’s dressing room there was a
beautiful girl there, his girlfriend, and he had on stretch pants with his big
cock showing, and he brought the band in to give them a lecture on when to
go slow and how to turn on the thirteen-year-olds. It was funny.
When we went out to our seats Shaun’s mother Shirley Jones was there
and I bent over to say hello where she was sitting and she looked scared,
but then I said, “I’m Andy Warhol” and she grabbed my hand and was
sweet and she introduced me to her husband Marty Ingels. Then Shaun
came on. He jumped through a hoop like a lion and the girls went crazy.
They took me on stage and it was the first time I was ever on stage at the
Garden. Smart little girls were screaming: “Andy.” And he does sexy things
with the microphone, he puts it between his legs and he touches his cock a
little, and he’s like a Mick Jagger for the young kids.
Monday, August 28, 1978—New York—Montauk
Went to the dentist. Dr. Lyons gets sort of mad because I keep putting off
the X-rays. I told him about the dentist on TV who said it was silly to take
X-rays, but Dr. Lyons said he didn’t care, that if I wanted him to be my
dentist, I had to do what he wanted.
Oh, and Bob MacBride called and said that Truman says he’s been cured
in Minnesota and that he’s coming back this week, but I can’t see how, he’ll
just get out and do the same things. And Brigid and I are thinking all the
time that maybe Truman never did write any of his own stuff, that maybe he
always had some butch guy there to do it. To do rewrites. Because I mean,
Truman showed me a script he did, and it was just awful, and when he
shows you these things you can’t imagine that he could even think they’re
any good, they’re so bad. And I mean, he went with Jack Dunphy for years,
and these guys are all supposed to be “writers” but you don’t really know
what they write, and now Bob MacBride gets his name on things, but he’s
not good, so maybe that’s why Truman’s work has gotten so … because he
hasn’t done anything in ten years, and that’s a long time. And I mean, the
things Truman says are interesting, so somebody else could find clever
ways to make them good on paper.
The car picked me up at 3:50 and Catherine and I rode out to Montauk,
it was a nice ride. We stopped at Burger King and picked up a couple of
steak sandwiches for Mr. Winters ($5). When we got to Montauk I gave Mr.
Winters and his wife Millie the sandwiches and a painting I brought him, an
abstract—it was a Shadow. I also brought some Interviews and I think his
wife liked the magazines better than the sandwich, and I think Mr. Winters
liked the sandwich better than the painting. I thought he could put it away
and keep it. I tried to get Mr. Winters to be in the movie, but he didn’t want
to be in it. There are so many kids at the place. Twenty were out shooting
and there were still so many. Said hello to Winnie, Tom’s Danish wife, who
I see is actually beautiful, after all.
Went over to the yacht club hotel and checked in. Tom brought his
Betamax by. Ulli and his wife Sukey came. We had dinner at the yacht club
and it was terrible, the place was rotten. Jack Palance who’s in Tom’s movie
was staying there at first but he hated it, they were so rude.
Then at midnight we went to Southampton to one of those beautiful
movie houses to see the rushes from the day before, and the movie looks
sort of good, lots of airplane shots and Jack Palance, and Tom is sort of
good, and the band plays in the movie, so I guess that’s what he’s actually
making the movie for, to introduce his band. They drove me back to the
yacht club and I fell asleep with my clothes on.
Tuesday, August 29, 1978—Montauk—New York
Catherine came to my room and Tom picked us up and drove us over to the
house for breakfast. Then Jack Palance came in and he’d been out all night
drinking. He’s fifty-five and looks thirty. He’s there with his dog, Patches,
and his girlfriend. I think he’s half Russian and half Ukranian. I’d asked
Tom how they thought to cast Jack Palance and he said they were thinking
about Rod Steiger—they wanted somebody butch, an old butch actor—but
Jack had a farm in Pennsylvania and they called him and he’ll do anything,
he said he just likes to drink, so he takes any role.
Jack played a character named Rof, who used to be Jayne Mansfield’s
manager, and Tom plays one called Destin, who’s a singer with a band. We
went outside to do my scene where I’m taking pictures without knowing it
of the people who run off with the coke. They decided to put me in the
beginning of the movie and gave me some lines, which I’m terrible at. I just
don’t know how to be real.
I interviewed Tom at dinner and his real life story was just like his
character’s life story in the movie—how he burned his body in a plane
crash in Colombia and some people found him and took him in a private
plane to New York.
I passed out in the limo on the way back in, and we got to the city
around 2:30.
Wednesday, August 30, 1978
Talked to Brigid who was typing the interview we did with Shaun Cassidy
and she said it was no good, that nobody said anything.
Thursday, August 31, 1978
Bob had a fight with Fran Lebowitz on the phone, she said she wasn’t going
to write for Interview anymore because he changed some of her words, and
I mean, why would Bob want to change words? Is it drugs?
Friday, September 1, 1978
Catherine’s leaving on Monday for her job at Viva. Her salary will be
$30,000 and her new date is Stephen Graham. They went to his mother’s
house on Martha’s Vineyard, so I guess she’ll be offered the editorship of
the Washington Post, too. Wait till they find out she can’t do anything.
Fred’s been invited to Avedon’s dinner before his show at the Met. He’s
buttering up to Fred. He wants something. I still hate him. He wouldn’t give
an interview to Interview because he said it wasn’t “right” for him. After he
got Bob to do publicity on him in Interview, he turned around and said that.
I mean, he’s just somebody who worked for Bazaar. He took those pictures
of my scars and of all the Factory kids and we signed releases for him and
everything and then he never even gave us prints. Viva’s in his new book,
but at least she got some prints.
Saturday, September 2, 1978
Went out and bought props for drawings (fruit $23.80).
Got a load of 1950s used shoes down on Canal Street for $2 a pair. It’s
just the shoes I used to draw, all the Herbert Levine shoes with the creative
lasts. Shoes first got really pointy in ‘54–55, and then they got round in ‘57.
I went in the back and I tried to paint but my painting wasn’t too good. I
was working on a German guy.
Sunday, September 3, 1978
I worked on the Fruit drawings and Diamond drawings and watched TV,
and my painting had improved from the day before, I was back into it, it
had been so bad on Saturday. And I got paint on my shoes and here I am
trying to grow long fingernails and I get acrylic on them and I guess acrylic
attracts acrylic because it gets more and more.
Tuesday, September 5, 1978
When I got to the office, Brigid was sitting there at her typewriter looking
her age which was going to be forty tomorrow. What can I give her? Some
chocolate? I’ll give her another tape to type.
Wednesday, September 6, 1978
Went to the garment center with the girls from Interview to sell copies of
the magazine there, even though I was nervous because on the news the
night before there was a new outbreak of Legionnaires’ Disease on 35th
Street between Sixth and Seventh, that now they think is caused by a
bacteria that forms in air-conditioning systems.
Blue Cross called to say that Ronnie sent them a doctor’s bill he wanted
compensation for— when he was murdering the cats they struggled against
him and he got scratched.
Toni Brown came up and she wants me to do the cover of High Times. I
told her she shouldn’t have told Carole that I said she was crazy, and then I
had to call Carole and say, “I didn’t say you were crazy, I said you were
crazy,” and then (laughs) she understood. It’s so funny when you just say
the same word but in a heavier way and then people understand.
Cabbed to the Waldorf ($3). There was a party in honor of me because
this was the day we were supposed to leave for Iran, but then the civil war
broke out. The Hoveydas looked really suntanned and healthy. Mrs.
Hoveyda said she didn’t know anything about what was going on in Iran
because her husband wouldn’t tell her, and he just said, “If things were
really bad, would I be sitting here tonight?”
Thursday, September 7, 1978
Called Truman’s apartment and Bob MacBride answered and said Truman
had just gotten back from Minnesota an hour ago, that they’d practically
just walked in the door, and Truman was going over to Dr. Orentreich’s to
get his face scraped or sandpapered.
Met Catherine at La Folie for the Joan Fontaine book party (cab $4). I
introduced her as the new senior Viva editor, and what a difference that
made. Everybody was suddenly, “Oh right this way—oh here you go,” and
they really hustled. She was Miss Big.
I dropped Catherine off and near 63rd Street we ran into her new editor,
the girl who hired her, and (laughs) she’s so thrilled to be getting Catherine.
Bob got a car and we picked up Fred and went out to Alex Guest’s party
for his sister Cornelia who’s going off to Foxcroft. There was a girl there
named Lisa Rance who’s after Robyn Geddes, but she’s chubby and I told
her. She was wearing a white Valentino and some kid came and threw
“invisible ink” on it, and it did disappear but I’ll bet it’s not really gone, that
in a different light you can still see it. I think the dress is finished.
Friday, September 8, 1978
Had lunch with Truman. He wasn’t drinking so he was boring. I paid for
lunch because he looked like he was out of money ($60). I taped, took
pictures, and then we went over to his bank, the Midland Bank. Bob
MacBride went home, he had an allergy. As we were walking together,
someone said, “Look! Living Legends!” And at the bank Truman was
getting $5,000 in cash in fifty-dollar bills and the bank guy asked him was
he sure he wanted it like that since he’d taken out $25,000 eight months ago
in hundreds and lost it. Truman’s checking account had $16,000 in it and his
savings $11,000 and he took $10,000 out of the savings to transfer so that
made $36,000 in his checking. So he does have money, the money does
come in. And then we walked and it was starting to rain and this girl from
Radcliffe came up to us, she said she was working on the Brian DePalma
movie and that she would be so honored if she could let us use her umbrella
so we walked with her for a little while.
Sunday, September 10, 1978
Picked up Bob and we walked over to U.N. Plaza and the dogs actually
made it walking the whole way, I was surprised, they loved it.
Truman wasn’t drinking so he was boring again. He had a guy there
from California who wore bluejeans, and I can’t stand people with 38”
waists who still wear bluejeans.
Truman had told me we’d be having caviar and potatoes, but instead he
had bad quiche. Truman was listening to records, Donna Summer, I think.
The guy from California had joints and he and Bob and Truman smoked
them, and Truman said that after the joint he would be really exciting and
interesting but he wasn’t. I was talking about the Gay Bob doll. Robert
Hayes had one at the Factory, it’s a doll that comes out of a closet and it’s
wearing an earring and a necklace and a plaid shirt and bluejeans and a
handbag and a big cock, and I guess I said the wrong thing because
everybody there was named Bob, but if you ever want to get anybody
anything, get them that, it’s so funny.
Monday, September 11, 1978
Rupert came over. Worked on some Fruits and “landscapes” and Jewelry.
Catherine called from over at Viva, she’s nervous, she was having lunch
with Delfina Rattazzi who still works at Viking to try to pick her brain.
Catherine was trying to find out how you find new writers. And today she’s
having lunch with Victor Bockris to try to pick his brain. So she’s scraping
the bottom of every barrel.
Oh, and I forgot to say that on Saturday my house shook. They bombed
the Cuban embassy on 67th between Fifth and Madison and when I looked
out the window, across the street where the girl with the crewcut who works
for YSL lives, her boyfriend was leaning out the window and he was naked
and good-looking.
Tuesday, September 12, 1978
I discovered that Archie and Amos both are covered with fleas and what I
thought were mosquito bites on me turned out to be flea bites, so now
they’re wearing flea collars and I should be wearing a flea collar, too.
Thursday, September 14, 1978
Ran into Barry Landau. It’s so great to have him not calling me. Bob told
him I was mad at him and amazingly that made him stop. I think that’s the
bee that sticks in his bonnet, when someone tells him, “You have to cool it.”
Then he does. Like Stevie told him that once. I guess so many people have
told him.
We went to Halston’s and got into limos to go over to Studio 54 for Dr.
Giller’s birthday. There was a cake with a syringe (laughs) that said “Dr.
Feelgood.” I ran into Barbara Allen and she was laughing. She said that
she’d just been up in the balcony with one of the Robert Kennedy sons—the
one with buck teeth who looks really like his father—and he took out a joint
so they could smoke it and when he lit the match he paused and looked into
Barbara’s eyes and said, “When I look into a flame, I see the face of my
uncle.” You know, the Eternal Flame. I left, and the bouncer got me a cab
and I tried to give him $10 but he wouldn’t take it (cab $2.50).
Saturday, September 16, 1978
Walked over to meet Bob and Joanne du Pont and Paul Jenkins on the
corner. Drove out to New Rochelle where there was a birthday party for Mr.
Kluge who is chairman of Metromedia. Everybody there was really, really
rich. The house was on the beach and painted yellow. They had a tent for
food and a tent for dancing, and lots of security people. I sat next to a lady
who said she had a sore thumb and I asked her if it was a “murderer’s
thumb.” She was awful. She said she was “Mrs. Goldenson” and I asked her
who she was and she said, “If you don’t know, I’m not going to tell you,”
and I’d ask her another way and she’d say, “You should know, so why
should I tell you.” Later on I found out her husband is a chairman at ABC,
Leonard Goldenson. But she was so rotten, I didn’t talk to her for the rest of
the night.
Then Bob found me and said that Mrs. Potamkin—Luba—who does the
TV ads for Potamkin Cadillac was dying to meet me so we went and found
her. And Bert Parks was there and I was so excited, Bob and I had been
sitting at his table, and I started talking to Mrs. Bert Parks and she got a
little fresh, she pushed her tits against me. And then Bob saw I was getting
into trouble and came over and put his arm around her to distract her and
she squeezed his ass, and then Bert saw that she was getting fresh and said,
“Let’s go dance, darling.”
I think everybody must have been somebody. Everybody was rich and
straight, a new crowd. All rich old people and attractive young girls for the
old fogies. They started serving breakfast at 1:00. They had huge seashells
made out of ice. Bob was telling me that everybody wanted portraits, but I
was so drunk I didn’t care.
Monday, September 18, 1978
Got up early. Slept with my clothes on so I wouldn’t get bitten by fleas. I
have about forty bites all over me and they came on different days, you can
tell by when they disappear.
We haven’t heard from Doug Christmas and if he doesn’t pay us I’m not
going to California tomorrow.
Tuesday, September 19, 1978
Passed out Interviews in the morning. Called Vincent and asked if Doug
Christmas sent us the check. He didn’t. Called Fred and threatened not to go
to California. So here it is now Wednesday morning and I still don’t know if
I’m going, the plane’s at 12:00. I can’t decide.
Wednesday, September 20, 1978—New York—Los
Angeles
In the morning we were waiting for the check to arrive from Doug
Christmas to see if we were going to California or not. It didn’t come in the
morning so we didn’t get on the flight at noon. But right after 12:00 it
arrived, so the driver picked me up at 860 and then we picked up Fred and
drove out to Newark to get a plane. The driver was nice (tip $10).
The plane left on time. What we were really having to go out there for
was a dinner that Marcia Weisman was giving. That meant we’d be missing
the big glamorous YSL Opium party in New York on the Chinese boat
downtown at the South Street pier.
Checked into our hotel, L’Ermitage. It’s for people who don’t want to be
discovered—if you’re having an affair, that’s the place to go. There’s no
lobby, and it’s chic in a funky way. It was very elegant. When you pick up
your key you get to pick a four-number combination, so I was 1111 and
Fred was 2222.
Thursday, September 21, 1978—Los Angeles
Went to Getty Museum. It was thrilling. A reproduction of a building they
haven’t excavated yet in Italy—they know where it is but there’s another
building on top of it. Bought a book on painting ($17).
Bob arrived in L.A. and described the YSL Opium party for us. Then
Joan Quinn arrived in fuschia hair and lots of matching amethysts. Fiorucci
sent a limo in exchange for us going to their opening. We went to pick up
Ursula Andress first. She’s staying with Linda Evans. The house is very big,
English country-style, a pool and tennis courts. Ursula was wearing a YSL
scarf over the cast on her broken arm. She was surfing in Malibu with Ryan
O’Neal when Hurricane Norman hit her and broke her arm, tore it out of her
socket. Joan whispered that everyone in L.A. wonders if it was Hurricane
Ryan that actually did it.
We went to Fiorucci where we ran into Ronnie Levin with Susan Pile
and Tere Tereba. Susan screamed that the party was cancelled but we
thought that was just a joke and started to get out of the limo but a cop
pushed us back in and said we were blocking traffic, that the party was
cancelled by order of the Beverly Hills Fire Department. A transvestite
handed us business cards through the window.
Then we went back to the hotel and then I went with Sue Mengers and
everyone else waited around for Mick Jagger to call. Sue is really fat again.
And God, her attitude is so cheap. There was no dinner, so she suggested
we stop at Burger King on the way to Diana Ross. It was so abstract, you
talk into a machine. She ordered a double Whopper but then she worried
that maybe two separate hamburgers would have been cheaper.
Sue treated the driver like dirt and I know that if I ever said one little
remark to her that she didn’t like, she would never speak to me again. She
said she’d introduced Isabella Rossellini to Martin Scorsese and that
they’ve been living together for two months. She hates Jerry Hall because
Jerry told Bob Weiner that Sue wanted to take an acid trip with Timothy
Leary. “What do they think I amww.” Like it had ruined her reputation. So
vulgar. God. Arrived backstage and she said, “I’m Miss Ross’s agent.” A
cute little waiter was serving meatballs. She said, “If we knew there would
be meatballs we wouldn’t have had to stop at Burger King.” I got myself
really drunk drinking straight Stolichnaya. Sue told me she’d just been
really after John Travolta, to represent him, but he reminded her that she’d
turned him down when he was on TV in Welcome Back, Kotter and she
didn’t remember it. But then, she said, sitting on the toilet seat one night she
remembered it.
Then Diana Ross came out looking really lovely. Thrilled to see me,
kissed me. Then she went on stage. She had a shot of brandy in her coffee
before she went on.
We were sitting in the seventh row. Universal Amphitheater. A plane
went over with lights on it that said, “Welcome to my show.” Laser beams
on the stage. She came out of a big screen, down an elegant staircase. Her
brother is cute. I want him photographed in Interview. She told me she got
the whole idea for her show from the Interview photo of guys carrying her
down a staircase.
Diana didn’t say she liked her cover and I just know it’s because it made
her look too black. At the end of the show she did a Wiz number and she
apologized for the music being too slow, and said, “Forgive me, audience,”
which she didn’t have to say because no one knew the difference.
Afterwards, backstage, Diana started to cry. She wanted to have another
rehearsal tomorrow. Then Berry Gordy and Diana had a fight, he told her he
wasn’t going to spend the money on another rehearsal. Diana wanted Sue to
take her side, but Sue said it wasn’t her area and then she said to me, “Let’s
get the hell out of here.”
Friday, September 22, 1978—Los Angeles
Back to Fiorucci. This time it really was opening. There were 3,000 kids on
the street dressed in every form of punk possible, but it’s clean-cut Los
Angeles punk. And we were pushed through the crowd, just like going to
Studio 54 on a big night. I went behind a counter where they had 300 copies
of Interview and I autographed them all. A star of Roots, Levar Burton,
asked for one. He was covered in sweat from dancing. They turned the
whole thing into a discotheque.
Saturday, September 23, 1978—Los Angeles
Wendy Stark picked us up and we drove out to Venice. Went to the Ace
Gallery for my Torso show. It was a beautiful sunny day, 100 degrees but
dry. The show looked good—cocks, cunts, and assholes. They had 1,000
copies of Interview ready to be given away.
I did two interviews—one with Connoisseur magazine, and one with
Society West. Wendy did them with me, and Fred was being funny and lied
and told everyone that the shaved vagina in the painting was Wendy’s.
Then we went to Polly Bergen’s house in Holmby Hills. Polly’s house is
very modern and well-decorated. There were Architectural Digests
everywhere. And her dressing room looks like a department store, with
racks of blouses and skirts and dresses and gowns, and she has a telescope
that’s for looking at the stars, but she uses it to look at the stars’ houses, and
we looked into Danny Thomas’s house across the canyon, but nothing was
happening there except a few geraniums were growing.
Then back to our dump (room service tea with tip $3, breakfast $2).
Wendy made a phone call to Stan Dragoti to invite him to the opening—
he’s really unhappy about Cheryl Tiegs running off to Africa with Peter
Beard. Then it was time to go off to Julia Scorsese’s and she told Fred on
the phone to be sure no one we brought had any drugs on them because
she’s trying to get more straight.
We got to Julia’s and everyone was sitting around smoking joints. Tony
and Berry Perkins, Firooz Zahedi and his fiancée, a lot of young writers and
composers. Tony asked us how was Chris Makos doing these days, he said
Chris was the biggest hustler, but that he was so seductive you ended up
giving in. He asked me if I liked L’Ermitage, and I said it was a good quiet
place to have an affair, and he said, “But could you have two affairs there?”
And Doug Christmas told us earlier that Ronnie Levin had had a friend
keep the receptionist busy while he walked in, took one of my drawings out
of the frame, rolled it under his arm, and walked out. Then he had the nerve
to try to sell it back to the gallery, and they pressed charges and the police
said he had a record a mile long.
Fred’s outfits on this trip were his new shirts from London—they’re
really long so they look like Indian tunics—and Sue Mengers said to Fred,
“In New York your hair is slicked back, you wear beautiful suits and
gorgeous ties, and in L.A. your shirt’s hanging out, there’s no jacket, no tie
—oh I know you, you probably said, ‘This is good enough for those
Hollywood Jews.’ “
Sunday, September 24, 1978—Los Angeles
We went to pick up Ursula Andress and when we got to Venice I was
dragged through the crowd. Marisa was wearing a gold sequined beret and a
gold sequined jacket and skin-tight black stretch pants—you could see her
pussy—and her sister Berry was wearing a blue and white-striped cotton
dress. Sue was wearing a flowing hot pink chiffon gown. Three thousand,
five hundred people showed up. Then we got it all coordinated so that I got
into my car real quick and was taken to the restaurant, Robert’s, where the
party was. It was on the beach.
A guy came over and said that he had the biggest cock in L.A., so I
offered to sign it and Marisa got so excited she leaned over to look at the
cock and her hair caught fire in the flames of a candle—it was like instant
punishment. And Ken Harrison was at the opening but he got lost in the
shuffle, and Sue was dying to meet him. Everyone was dying to meet him
because of his big cock in my show.
Monday, September 25, 1978—Los Angeles—New
York
The new Interview arrived from New York and Fran’s column was so
boring I told Bob we should fire her. So we had a fight. Then Wendy picked
us up and she took us to Giorgio’s in Beverly Hills to sell some ads and
Fred and Gale Hayman who own it were thrilled to see me. And now
they’re selling mink V-neck sweaters and I said, “Oh I’d love one.” and he
said, “I’ll sell it to you wholesale.” And then I realized I’d really stuck my
foot in it and I said, “Oh no no no. I’ll just pick one up the next time I’m in
town.”
Johnny Casablancas was checking into the hotel and a bunch of
Rastafarians were out in front because Bob Marley was staying there (maid
tips $30, concierge tips $20, bellboy tips $10, limo driver $10, Redcap tip
$5, magazines for the plane $14.50).
The plane sat in the airport for five hours having its fuel system
repaired. Meanwhile, the talk of the town was the air crash in San Diego
that morning that killed 150 people.
Tuesday, September 26, 1978
Dropped Fred. Truman was coming to the Factory at 3:00 for the High
Times Christmas cover photograph of him and me. Truman was early, 2:30.
Bob MacBride peed on one of the Piss paintings in the back for me, and he
kept going back to see if the colors had changed. Truman told Brigid about
the drying-out place, and she interviewed him, and that’s where her sister
Richie is, too.
Paul Morrissey was down, and he and Truman talked all afternoon about
scripts and things. Then Toni arrived four hours late, she had a Santa
costume for me and a little girl outfit for Truman. But Truman wasn’t in the
mood to go into drag, he said that he was already dressed like a little boy.
Truman was really drunk, hugging around.
Truman was pleading with Brigid to get him a drink and not tell Bob—
this is after she caught him drinking in the kitchen. Ronnie was trying to
make the makeup girl. My makeup wasn’t working, it was no use, I had too
many pimples.
Wednesday, September 27, 1978
Some German photographers came. Rupert came and helped with the Fruit
drawings. The lineup for the evening:
5:30 Roberta di Camerino’s at “21”
6:00 Barneys for Giorgio Armani
6:30 MOMA for the Rolling Stone anniversary
7:00 Cocktails at Cynthia Phipps’s
8:45 Dinner at La Petite Ferme
10:30 Joe Eula’s party
11:00 Halston’s
12:00 Studio 54 for an animal benefit
1:00 Flamingo’s for a tit-judging party that Victor arranged for me to go
to.
Thursday, September 28, 1978
Bob was in a grouchy mood because the doctor told him he couldn’t drink
anymore, and now he’s bored by absolutely everybody he sees, he’s a camp.
He only perks up when there’s royalty around. He’s as bad as Fred.
Saturday, September 30, 1978
Went home and was picked up by the limo to go to the Jack Nicholson-Ara
Gallant screening of the movie Jack directed, Goin’ South. The one Barbara
Allen “auditioned” for.
The movie—I’m not sure, I think it was a light comedy. It didn’t say
anything, though. It’s good in the beginning and you think something’s
going to happen, but it doesn’t. The new girl, Mary Steenburgen, is okay—
she’s good, but not beautiful. She looks a little like Anjelica and you just
know that’s why he did it, and he just should have used Anjelica, but that’s
when they were having the Ryan O’Neal troubles.
And you know, I was thinking the other day about commercial movies
and then all the great art movies, and I’ve decided something: Commercial
things really do stink. As soon as it becomes commercial for a mass market
it really stinks. I know I always rave and say my favorite movies are things
like The Other Side of Midnight and The Betsy, but I guess I’m … going to
change my tune. You have to do stuff that average people don’t understand,
because those are the only good things. And even though the arty foreign
movies are boring to sit through, at least they try to do creative things. So
I’m going to start going to the New Yorker and seeing strange movies again.
I’m missing so much, going to parties.
I was a little drunk and I went over to Jack and said I really really loved
it, because Fred told me those kind of things really do make a difference to
people.
Afterwards Catherine and I went into this place on 54th Street that said
“Female/Male Nudes,” and there were almost naked girls on like a big long
banquet table with men sitting around and it’s so abstract. They put their tits
and asses into the guy’s faces, an inch away, and the guys just sit there like
zombies. And there’s a sign that says “Do Not Touch.” And one of the
hookers looked at me and said, “Oh my God, oh my God.” And then the
girls came over and one said, “Oh will you buy me a drink?” And I did—I
(laughs) didn’t know yet that the drinks were $8.50 apiece. And then more
girls came and they made me feel really good, like I was straight, and they
kept saying to come upstairs, that upstairs was really really really fun. What
do you think was up there? Is that where they do it? And the girl told
Catherine she would really like it up there, too, she was trying to make
Catherine, and I bought drinks for the other girls so that’s 3 X $8.50 plus $5
tip ($30.50) and then 8 X $8.50, plus $20 ($88) until I ran out of money.
Then we left and went next door to a gay porno movie. Catherine wanted to
see it and it was a glory-hole movie and it was too peculiar and we just
stayed for ten minutes (cab $3).
Sunday, October 1, 1978
Brigid and I talked about old times. She was on amphetamines for twenty-
three years. Isn’t that something? I mean think of it, twenty-three years.
Then we started to watch The Users on TV and we called each other about
five times. Jaclyn Smith was so good. They had her hair commercial on,
too.
Monday, October 2, 1978
Doug Christmas wants to show the Piss paintings in Paris after we go to
Denmark, so I’ll have to drink more water and make more. I can do two a
day now, and Fred told me to put two of them together, that they look more
interesting that way.
Monday, October 9, 1978—Paris
Went to Loulou de la Falaise’s party. Shirley Goldfarb was there, and she’s
just beat her cancer. She’s 106 again—she’d been down to 78 pounds. She
only lost a little bit of hair from the chemotherapy. She’s back being just as
obnoxious as ever and now that she’s better, people treat her badly again.
Her husband was there. Wished I had a tape recorder to tape her. She was
happy, looking good. Loulou’s got a duplex with a balcony. There was a
birthday cake but I didn’t have any, I was so involved with Shirley.
Tuesday, October 10, 1978—Paris
Club Sept invited us to a private dinner ($40 to chauffeur). We got there and
our table was actually reserved for Bette Midler. Saw Isabelle Adjani, so
beautiful. Bette came in and got an ovation. She saw me and made me kiss
her hand. Told her we just missed her in Copenhagen, she said she knew all
about it. I tried to talk to her but she reminds me too much of Fran Lebowitz
—like she’s afraid you’ll steal her material. We just don’t hit it off.
Valentino was there and he and Bette chatted, she asked him how the
shmatta trade was, and what did Jackie O. buy and she wanted four of them
and what was the new look. She gives everybody the Sophie Tucker
answers. Then she left and the party kept going on.
Thursday, October 12, 1978—New York
Went over to Bob MacBride’s new studio and guess where it is—33 Union
Square West! On the tenth floor! So I got pangs going over there, riding up
in that elevator to the floor where Interview used to be. Bob MacBride has
the room next to that. It’s too bad we didn’t buy that building, though,
because it’s narrow and Interview could have had four floors already. Bob’s
stuff, now I really like it, I honestly do. It’s bent wood sculpture. Truman
was bouncing around. I don’t know if he’s drinking or not.
We got a call—the call I didn’t want to get—saying that we had to go to
Paris next week, the twentieth, Friday, for the Piss paintings.
Dropped Bob on Park at 7:00 ($3.20). The police just arrested Sid
Vicious for stabbing his twenty-year-old manager-girlfriend to death in the
Chelsea Hotel, and then I saw on the news that Mr. Bard was saying, “Oh
yeah. They drank a lot and they would come in late….” They just let
anybody in over there, that hotel is dangerous, it seems like somebody’s
killed there once a week. I was tired so I stayed home, did some drawings,
worked, watched TV, snoozed. Then the alarm system went off and I was
afraid to go down and look, but finally I got brave and took Archie under
my arm and went down to the kitchen but there was nothing there. I
watched TV but kept worrying that there was someone in the house. All
Fall Down. When Brandon De Wilde kicks the picture of Warren Beatty
and Angela Lansbury grabs it and holds it close, it’s so good, you know?
Who wrote that movie? Was it the one who committed suicide who was like
Tennessee Williams? The one who wrote Picnic … Inge.
Sunday, October 15, 1978
Picked up Bob and we cabbed over to U.N. Plaza for lunch ($2). Truman
was in the kitchen. He said that he was cooking but I think everything was
actually bought. It was really hot in the kitchen, the oven was on and the
sun was pouring in, but nothing was cooking. I think he was actually just in
there drinking, pretending to cook. There was a bottle of Stolichnaya in the
refrigerator. He offered some to Bob, who had to turn it down, and then he
insisted that I have some, and he took one of those double wine glasses and
poured it three-quarters full and then put in a drop of orange juice. I took it
but just kept it in my hand. I went to the other room and talked sculpture
with Bob MacBride but I kept running into the kitchen to check on Truman.
He had some tomatoes sitting around the kitchen. He showed me a pie he’d
baked, he said, but I don’t think he had. I think it was bought because it had
cardboard under it. But he let me take a picture of him holding it, like he
had just baked it. He was talking about what a great cook he was, how he’d
made veal stew the night before.
Eventually he stole my drink. He served black bean soup, and he
insisted it had to be served lukewarm, so after all that cooking in the kitchen
the soup was cold. And it looked grey. I didn’t really eat any of it, but Bob
—Bob Colacello—thought it was great. I dumped my bean soup in the
bathroom. Nobody saw me. I had to run around the apartment a little before
I finally made it to the bathroom with the soup so they wouldn’t notice.
Truman was getting more and more loaded. I taped all afternoon. He told us
he went one night to Flamingo with Liza and Stevie and there were all these
sex acts with boys in cages and they went into the owner’s office and it was
a really straight-looking guy about thirty-five and Truman asked him, “Why
did you start this place?” And before he told us the guy’s answer, Truman
looked at us and really built it up, he said, “This has got to be the greatest
line in history.” Then he said, “The guy looks at me and says, ‘Sometimes I
get horny.’ “ And Truman kept repeating that all afternoon and laughing at it
(cab $2).
Sunday, October 16, 1978
I was invited to dinner at Le Premier by the daughter of the Bruno Pagliai
man who was married to Merle Oberon, Marie-José Pagliai (cab uptown,
dropped Rupert and Todd $4.50). The invitation said 8:30 so I thought there
would be drinks first and I took my time and got there at 9:00, and I was so
embarrassed, everyone was sitting down already. Marie-José was scared
that I wasn’t going to show up at all. Andrew Young and his wife were
there.
The thing that was most interesting—it was all I could think about once
she told me—was Marie-José’s dogs. She was talking about her black and
white scotties and she confessed that the black one was a scottie but that the
white one was just a dog done up to look like a matching scottie! She had
the hair done that way, she said it was something she’d always wanted.
The dinner party was for Marie’s father, Bruno, who never showed up
because it was raining.
Tuesday, October 17, 1978
Well, I spent the evening with Dolly Parton. She’s a Halston girl now, she’s
on the arm of Halston.
The Thurn und Taxis guy and Pierre de Malleray picked us up to go
downtown to dinner at Ballato’s. The Taxis guy got drunk and he told a lot
of stories. He’s the richest guy in Germany, he’s got a great body but his
face is a little puffy, he’s old. He said some Negroes came up to him by his
hotel and started to follow him with a baseball bat, they were calling him a
faggot, and he turned around and said, “Listen here, you black niggers,”
something like that, he told them off and they were so stunned that they
went away. He said you have to fight back or you don’t survive.
We went to Halston’s and Dolly was there wearing the most horrible
dress, a Halston that just looked awful. She’s fat, she likes to eat.
Thursday, October 19, 1978
Watched Steve Martin on the Donahue Show. He looked good. I wonder if
he asked for that angle.
Thursday, October 26, 1978
Our limo driver showed us a clipping of himself from the newspaper. He’d
been acquitted of kidnapping a bar owner’s cat who was a lookalike for
Morris the Cat who’d just died. The bar was on Ninth Avenue in the 50s.
The driver said that he just fed the cat, then let it out like he always did,
only this time the cat didn’t go back to the bar and the owner accused him
of trying to sell it as a replacement for Morris. The jury deliberated for three
hours before finding him innocent, so he felt he was a celebrity.
Saturday, October 28, 1978
Thomas Ammann called. He’s staying at Fred’s house. We went to
Christie’s and got catalogues, because some of my old drawings are up for
sale. They’re from Bill Cecil, who was killed in a car crash. His family was
in the American antiques business. I think that’s how I started collecting
American stuff—I got my first cupboard from them, the cupboard that’s
now in the Interview office, the one they keep the pencils and rubber
cement in (catalogues $6, $22, $8, $10).
Victor said that Halston had been trying to reach me to invite me to the
benefit for John Warner that Liz Taylor Warner was having that night. Liz
looked very fat, but very beautiful. Chen, her secretary, was there. But John
Warner wasn’t even there. Liz was upset at how awful the party was.
Halston told her he would have just given her the $10,000 if that’s all she
was getting from it. Some face doctor that said I’d met him in California
three years ago started talking to me, he said he was screwing all day and
had come seven times. I don’t know why he was telling me. He asked me
how old I was and I said, “Thirty-five,” and he said I looked forty-five. He
said (laughs) that if I go to him I can look like “a normal thirty-five-year-
old,” because he would do nutrition and things. I guess that’s why he was
telling me he was screwing, that I could come seven times if I went to him,
too.
Then Aline Franzen who was in charge of the party decided to do her
auction thing but nobody at this thing was about to buy anything—they
were all just wearing the teentsyest jewel you could buy at Bulgari, or
something. Aline said, “This is my painting that I did myself with my whole
heart and who will bid on it?” And nobody did. Finally Liz hit me and said,
“You better bid on it,” and I said no, that I wanted to bid on the two tickets
to Studio 54, and finally Liz screamed, “All right, I’ll take it myself,” and
Aline said, “No, Liz, you can’t” and Aline threw herself on the floor and
was crying and it was such a comedy and then Liz’s secretary Chen said she
would take it, and Liz screamed, “No, Chen, you can’t, you don’t have any
money.” And Lee Grant was an auctioneer, too, she auctioned off two teeth,
porcelain ones I think, for $2. I’m telling you, nobody in this crowd was
going to buy a thing. Oh, poor Liz. And Aline said, “You rich people are
being cheap.” And then John Cabot Lodge got up and made a peculiar
speech because he talked about the Red Enemy, and it was so weird. Then
Halston and Liz said they would meet afterwards at his house.
So Halston and I went to his house together. Liz sneaked in later and he
gave her some coke and she got high and happy. I told her, “Look, you’ve
got nine days until the election, you’ve got to really get down and talk to
the Negroes.” I said, “This lady stuff isn’t going to work.” And she said,
“Oh lawdy lawdy lawdy.” And I told her, “Listen, if you lose the election
and you leave your husband, I want you to play Truman Capote for me on
Broadway.” So she started laughing and went into a trance and tried to talk
like Truman, but she couldn’t remember how he talked.
Then Victor and I went into the kitchen and I fed Linda potato chips
under the table which I wasn’t supposed to do, which was fun, and Halston
and Liz were talking intimately in the other room and he told me later that
John Warner wasn’t fucking her.
I told her, “Elizabeth”—you really do have to call her Elizabeth—I said,
“Elizabeth, it would be so great to see you in the White House.” And she
was cute, she said, “Oh but I just want to be a senator’s wife, I mean, can
you imagine me in the White House? A Jew and married seven times?”
Sunday, October 29, 1978
Woke up at 10:30 but it was really 9:30. Daylight saving time.
Then Bob called and said he was at Averil’s and that we were supposed
to meet Mike Nichols and the “Dr. Warhol” that Nichols was insisting I had
to meet who was from Poland who said he was my long-lost cousin. I didn’t
want to go—I can’t stand Mike Nichols—but we had to go because Ara
Gallant had set it up. We were supposed to have Sunday lunch at the
Carlyle, but then it was moved downtown to Lady Astor’s.
I went to church and then picked up Ara and Bob and Averil ($5.). When
we got there Mike Nichols had left. His assistant said Nichols was mad
because we were fifteen minutes late. What nerve to leave after making me
go down there, and oh, it was awful—this doctor guy telling me I’m Polish.
He spells his name W-a-r-c-h-o-l. This Polish fairy asking me questions like
did I live alone. He invited us to Poland next September. Mike Nichols met
him because he collects Arabian horses—he has 120 horses in Connecticut
—and when he goes to Communist Poland every September to get more
this Dr. Warchol helps him.
I went to bed early. Talked to Jed’s decorating-business partner Judith
Hollander about furniture restoration and about the fights I’ve been having
lately with Jed.
Wednesday, November 1, 1978
Tom Sullivan came by to show Cocaine Cowboys to us on a Betamax. He
was smoking marijuana, and it was funny to smell it at the office. Paul
Morrissey watched a little of it and said it was too slow, and Brigid was in
and out and thought so, too, but I liked it.
And I decided I’m not so bad in it. They only let me do one take and I
think if I’d been able to do more I would have gotten better. But I was better
than in “my first film,” The Driver’s Seat. And Cocaine Cowboys has some
good music in it. It’s a dumb story, though. These dealers drop cocaine from
a plane and a maid and a secretary find it and steal it. Tom said it cost him
$950,000 to make it, but I don’t see how, it was non-union.
Ed Walsh came by to show us architectural plans for the building we
own on Great Jones Street [Andy bought this carriage house at 57 Great
Jones Street as well as a four-story building around the corner —referred
to as “342” or “the Bowery”—in 1970]. We’re going to fix it up and then
maybe rent it out.
Friday, November 3, 1978
The Elvis at the Parke Bernet auction on Thursday went for $85,000. It was
estimated to go between 100 to 125. The market’s peaked for contemporary
art. Todd Brassner said the Mao was about to go for $4,000 and he bid it up
to $5,000 and then somebody else got it so he was thrilled.
Thomas picked me up in the limo and we went to La Grenouille. I saw
the lady who runs La Grenouille and she said that her son was getting
married. Her son went to school with my nephew James at Carnegie Tech,
my brother Paul’s son. James is in New York now trying to be an artist, and
I won’t help him out. Because, well, I never liked the mother, so I would
feel funny helping the kid. I took him out to Montauk a few times, and he
just … I don’t know.
Saturday, November 4, 1978
After we saw Platinum we picked up a limo outside the theater ($15) and
guess who was our driver! The catnapper!! The one from a couple of weeks
ago!
Monday, November 6, 1978
Rupert came by and we worked on the Grapes. Cab down to Maxime de la
Falaise’s loft on Fifth Avenue and 19th Street ($4). Everybody’d been
eating dinner. Susan Bottomly—International Velvet—was there. São was
there and Patrick O’Higgins, and John Richardson and Boaz Mazor and
Amina came in from a fashion show benefit at Studio 54 and she looked
beautiful. She said she was writing a play about men who put themselves
down in a bar and I told her that everybody does that, why not make them
fashion models who put themselves down at a fashion show, and she said
that was a great idea, that she’d just make the men girls.
Ricky Clifton gave me the most beautiful earrings, little John Travolta
earrings. And this guy who I’ve met before who did a movie about people
who drill holes in their heads was there with his girlfriend and they’d both
drilled holes in their heads.
John was telling me that Boaz, when he first met him, was the star of
Oliver Stone’s first feature movie. It was called Michael and Mary. Boaz
was Michael. They were shooting it on weekends and John said it was like
Cocteau—beauties falling all over the place—and Oliver’s mother,
Jacqueline, gave all the kids in the movie poppers to make them act better.
Boaz said it was shown at the Thalia for a couple of weeks once.
Susan Bottomly looks very skinny. She’s left her boyfriend in Wales, she
said she couldn’t take it anymore. He wanted to have a baby and she didn’t.
Tuesday, November 7, 1978
It was Election Day, so many places were closed. Catherine called and
wanted to do something. We stayed at the office until 6:30 or 6:45 and then
went up to 725 Fifth Avenue to the Robert Miller Gallery for Juan
Hamilton’s opening there (cab $4). And just when I got there a guy came in
and served Juan papers. It was charges from the woman that used to work
for Georgia O’Keeffe for years, saying that he was conspiring to get all
Georgia’s paintings.
I left Rupert on 66th and went home and glued. I’d invited the Hoveydas
out, things are so bad in Iran, and the du Pont girl and Paul Jenkins. And
then Bob invited Lily Auchincloss—her husband Douglas just left her for
Kay Kay Larkin.
We went over to Quo Vadis. Hoveyda got a phone call and they told him
that the phone lines from Iran to Paris and New York were out, and the
Shah’s put the military out stronger. The Hoveydas looked worried.
Then around the corner we saw Truman. He was fixing Barbara Allen up
with a millionaire. I think it was actually his Jewish lawyer or something.
And Truman is a completely different person from last week. Do you think
they’ve found a new drug to give him? Really, this week he’s so dapper and
last week he was an alcoholic.
Wednesday, November 8, 1978
Dotson Rader is on TV right now on one of the morning shows. He’s awful.
I’ve always thought he worked for the CIA and I still do. I just can’t take it.
Hold on, I’m going to shut it off…. There, I feel so much better now.
Cocktails at Tatiana Liberman’s were fun. Barbara Rose was there,
sitting in all these clothes that were so expensive, but she still has no style. I
told her we’d rent her a fag and he could take her around and tell her what
to buy and how to put it together. I said, “Well, you’re living in a chic
building now, Barbara”—in the Galleria—“so you should really start to
look chic.” I tried to be diplomatic, but everything just came out like the
truth.
C.Z. Guest had a dinner at Le Cirque. Kim D’Estainville and Hélène
Rochas were there, they said that they’d just been in California and they
drove miles to the Venice galleries because they wanted to see some
“regional” art, and then when they got there, there was my porno show! So
they had a good laugh. They loved Big Sur.
Oh, and David Whitney called and said he was going out to California
and Philip Johnson had given him a first-class ticket and he said, “Oh
Philip, you shouldn’t have. I don’t need it,” and so Philip cashed it in for
coach!
At dinner I was next to Doris Duke. She was great. Then afterwards
everyone was going to Studio 54 and Bob took most of the ladies in his
silver limo, and Doris Duke had a station wagon, it was so chic. We got into
that. Then when we got there she wanted to leave—she didn’t want her
picture taken—so I took her to her car and went back. I saw the John
Scribner boy and Robyn, and James Curley—he’s a Mellon—he’s the cute
kid whose father was ambassador to Ireland. Catherine was there and she’s
unhappy with her job at Viva. She said she wished she were back at
Interview with Bob screaming at her, she said every article has to have a
dozen meetings about it. I said I’d take her home. It was around 2:00 (cab
$4).
Friday, November 10, 1978
Adriana Jackson came down and I took some pictures of her and a Swiss
lady for a portrait. Gigi did the makeup, so we now have someone making
the faces white so the wrinkles don’t show and they print up better and
make up into better screens and also it seems to the people like you’re
doing something more special for them. The pictures really do come out
better. The Swiss lady didn’t like her nose, which actually was a nice one,
so it was hard to take a picture that she liked her nose in.
Bob Markell from Grosset & Dunlap came to the office. He said the
photo book Bob and I are doing should be out by May 31, and then he
started talking about me going on TV and I just looked at him and ran out of
the room. He’d been saying how everyone in Europe loved all these
“intimate pictures” of the people we know, so then I got nervous—(laughs)
what if they are intimate?
Monday, November 13, 1978
I think I may try brushing the piss on the Piss paintings now.
Went over to Jamie and Phyllis Wyeth’s at 1 East 66th Street for
Phyllis’s birthday party that Jamie had called that afternoon to invite me to.
Joanne du Pont’s name came up. I don’t think Jamie likes her much, but I
don’t know why not—I mean, he married into the du Ponts, too.
Nan Kempner arrived. Bo Polk arrived and everyone was thrilled that
Barry Landau wasn’t with him. Then Barry arrived. And Bo should really
be careful, because Barry even takes Polaroids now, and it could hurt the
people if someday somebody showed pictures of everybody at his bathtub
parties. Because at the time it’s just all fun, but if it got printed in the papers
it would look like something else.
Tuesday, November 14, 1978
Truman Capote stopped by, he was visiting Bob MacBride in his studio at
33 Union Square. Truman may be on Lithium, because suddenly he’s
happy. But my real theory is that he went out to Long Island and saw Jack
Dunphy and that Jack Dunphy finally agreed to write Answered Prayers for
him. And he had the most chic coat on. Courrèges. One big zipper and two
zippers for the pockets. He said it was a few years old. But his hands are
cold. Which drug is that?
I worked at the office until 7:30. Rupert was helping me try to paint with
a brush, the piss on the brush, but it was hard. Dropped Rupert ($4).
Ann Lambton’s in town. She’s about to go cross-country visiting the
Americans she’s met in London the past couple of years. It’s incredible
what a figure she has now.
Wednesday, November 15, 1978
After work we decided to open a bottle of champagne at the office and get
drunk. This was 6:30. So Averil and Vincent and I got drunk, and then we
left. Averil stopped a limo and asked how much it would be to take us to
Bloomingdale’s and he said $10, so we got in. Averil said that all the
Kennedy kids would be at this opening of the Superman shop. We got there
to the Superman shop and it looked like the sixties again. How many times
are they going to bring back camp?
Thursday, November 16, 1978
At the T-shirt promotion thing for Viva/Penthouse at Tavern on the Green
the blond Smothers Brother—they’re on Broadway in I Love My Wife—
came over and said, “Hi Andy, how are ya.” And then later when I went to
the phone and tried to call the office, he was waiting for the phone, too. He
talked about himself and said he didn’t feel he was creative anymore and
that it was probably because he was secure, and he asked me how I felt, and
I said that I wasn’t creative since I was shot, because after that I stopped
seeing creepy people. Then a kid said to him, “Don’t you remember me? I
was so-and-so’s chauffeur and also the first houseboy to work in the Sharon
Tate house after the murders.” Isn’t that a great line.
There’s a rumor that Viva is about to fold.
Saturday, November 18, 1978
It was a beautiful day, in the seventies. I watched people on pogo sticks in
the park.
Sunday, November 19, 1978
Stevie Rubell had called me earlier and asked if I wanted to go with Diana
Ross to a midnight concert at the Palace that a couple who wrote songs for
her were giving. Ashford and Simpson. We limoed to the Palace Theater
and went to the dressing room. The husband is really good-looking and the
wife is cute. When the audience saw Diana, the whole place mobbed her.
There were four bodyguards with us, all the blacks just love her. The Wiz is
a big hit, I didn’t know that. The concert was sensational, there were
bravos.
Then there was a Valentino party at 54. I guess Stevie was trying to
make it a really bad party, because he had the waiters dressed up like
Pilgrims and he was serving turkey. He said he had to explain to Valentino
why he was doing it that way. He said he told him, “Well, you know
America was discovered by an Italian,” and he said that they (laughs)
understood. The front of Studio 54 was decorated like the front of a boat. I
lost Halston but I found him a little later eating a turkey leg, and he made
me have some. The last place you want to eat meat from is a discotheque,
but later I saw Stevie eating the turkey, too, so I guess it was okay. Barbara
Allen was there, going home to meet Bryan Ferry.
Monday, November 20, 1978
Truman’s going on The Stanley Siegel Show again, but only because it’s
taped this time.
Viva magazine did fold and now Catherine’s out in the cold.
Tuesday, November 21, 1978
Thomas Ammann had called and invited me to dinner with Cy Twombly.
And then Bob got invited. Thomas asked me where we should go. I told
him about the Palace—that restaurant on 59th Street in the Sovereign that’s
been in the papers for a year or so, that’s supposed to be so expensive—I
told him it was $300 per person and he laughed and said it couldn’t be that
much, that that was fine and that’s where we’d go. And then Thomas called
Barbara Allen and she was with Taki Theodoracopulos so they came.
The Palace had a crocheted curtain in the window, it looked like a place
that gave palm readings. We were the only ones in the place, but there were
about eighteen people running around to serve. The look was like going to
the tackiest person’s apartment who’s trying to put on the dog. Like going
to Barbra Streisand’s house. West Side taste. Every table was under a
chandelier, and the dishes had gold trim on them, that kind of thing. But the
food was good. There were eight courses. The bill came to $914 and I think
it shocked Thomas. I really think he was really shocked. Because after he
saw the bill, he stopped making fun of the meal.
Wednesday, November 22, 1978
The big news for the past two days is the mass suicide in Guyana of a cult
led by somebody named Jim Jones. It’s costing the U.S. government $8
million to remove all the bodies and bring them back. They’d put cyanide in
grape-flavored Kool-Aid. (laughs) Just think, if they’d used Campbell’s
Soup I’d be so famous, I’d be on every news show, everyone would be
asking me about it. But Kool-Aid was always a hippie thing.
Thursday, November 23, 1978
I watched the Thanksgiving Day parade on TV. I guess New York really is
booming—when you think that every member of every marching band has
to stay in a hotel room overnight. I glued myself together and went down to
work (cab $3.50). There was nobody around.
I went over to Halston’s for Thanksgiving dinner.
And meanwhile all this holiday they’re still finding more and more
bodies in Guyana. They must have known that there were 900. Why were
they covering it up in the beginning? How come we didn’t hear about these
people before?
Sunday, November 26, 1978
I called Bob and he was grouchy, he said he couldn’t talk because he was
writing his “Out” column. I don’t know what he’s so grouchy for, it’s the
only writing he does all month.
I went to church, it was so beautiful and cold out. Then I worked. I drew
earths and moons and watched TV.
Monday, November 27, 1978
The exciting news story was that the mayor of San Francisco was shot and
it sounded at first like it was something to do with the Jim Jones cult, but
then it wasn’t, it was by a good-looking guy who even looked like a
newsman.
Wednesday, November 29, 1978
Went to the Coronet Theater to a screening. The Deer Hunter was the new
kind of movie—three hours of watching torture. It took place in Clairton,
Pennsylvania, where all my cousins are from, and in the movie they said it
was Russian-Polish, but that was just to make it more something, because it
was really Czechoslovakian. It had John Savage, and lots of good-looking
kids.
It starts off, it’s three buddies drinking. For a whole hour it’s the Polish
wedding, and they could have cut it, but it was fun—so real and so
beautiful. It shows a new kind of people in the movies that haven’t been
shown before, so it’s really good. Then they go shooting some deer, so you
know that from there it’s going to cut to Vietnam. In the end Chris Walken
puts the gun to his head and shoots himself dead and Bobby De Niro grabs
his hand and says, “Oh, darling, I love you, I love you,” holding his
bleeding head, something like that.
I saw the Daily News girl, Liz Smith. No photographers took pictures of
me, so I guess I’m not so much now.
Oh, and Arthur Miller was at the screening. It was interesting to see him.
He’s very good-looking. I guess people like that work at it, the rich-kind-of-
Jewish look. Like I saw on one of the morning shows this twenty-six-year-
old kid named I think Schwartz who talked like a Kennedy, he was a
councilman or something. Arthur Miller looked refined, and a straighter
face than Richard Avedon, but like that. Like a Lehman. I guess they marry
good-looking wives and get good-looking children.
The news the night before showed pictures of all the houses that people
had signed over to the People’s Temple when they joined. Oh God, that’s
the hardest thing, how could people give away their things?
Thursday, November 30, 1978
I was invited to Valentino’s dinner for Marisa Berenson. Walked over to the
Mayfair House to Le Cirque. Lee Radziwill and Peter Tufo were there and
André Oliver and Baryshnikov. The card next to me said “Jessica” and it
turned out to be Jessica Lange, who’s now going with Baryshnikov. And
when she arrived I said, “I’ve heard so much about you,” and she said the
same thing. She was good friends with Cory Tippin and Jay Johnson and
Tom Cashin and Antonio Lopez. She said she’d stayed out in our Montauk
house when Tom and Jay were out there painting and roofing. She said that
Dino De Laurentiis didn’t even offer her another part for a year and a half
after King Kong, so now she’s going to do a part in the new Bob Fosse film
—it sounds like it’s just a small part, though.
Friday, December 1, 1978
Everyone was working, getting ready for the cocktail party Bob was giving
at the office before his dinner for Elizinha Goncalves at 65 Irving. They
were rearranging furniture and clearing things off and Vincent went out to
stock up. Tommy Pashun came down with flowers.
Stevie gave me a Quaalude and Halston said, “For the box, for the box.”
Victor’s told him about my system, how I drop everything people give me
or that I get in the mail into a box at the office. Victor used to bring me
some of Halston’s notes like from Jackie O., but then Halston realized he
should start saving them himself. These ladies really do write notes—when
do they find time? And I’m invited to Jackie O.’s Christmas party again. We
must be on somebody else’s list, though, not hers. Because we weren’t
invited to the party Jackie gave last week. Robert Kennedy, Jr. told Fred
that they had a big question about whether to invite us and decided not to.
Jackie really is awful, I guess. She invited Jann Wenner and Clay Felker.
Them she invited.
Sunday, December 3, 1978
Taki had told me that Barbara Allen made him so jealous on the phone
implying that there was somebody there with her, that he went over to her
house in the middle of the night and knocked her door down, and there was
nobody in there. She did that to somebody else, too, that nice English guy
who came all the way over here because he saw her picture and he beat her
door down and there was nobody there then, either.
Halston and Stevie Rubell gave Bianca a beautiful fur coat. Dr. Giller
paid for the collar, and Halston and Steve paid for the rest of the coat. It
cost $30,000 or $40,000. I’m surprised they didn’t ask me to give her an
arm. (laughs) And Halston said, “I think everyone should have furs, jewels,
and Andy Warhol paintings.”
Tuesday, December 5, 1978
Doug Christmas came to the office with a rich lady named Connie from
Texas. He’d flown in just for the day to take her back because he feels real
money there. Cabbed to meet them ($4).
She wants a life-size portrait. Her girlfriend is the lady with the Kimbell
Museum that I did, I can’t remember her name, and she says she doesn’t
want a big head like I usually paint—she wants something different, a life-
size portrait. She said she turned down Jackie O.’s portrait guy —what’s his
name? Is it Shickler? And she said that if I’m going to do her portrait we
have to “get to know each other.” OH GOD, OH GOD! She invited me to
the $3 million house she’s building in Fort Worth. When she kept talking
about getting to know us, I finally ran away. Then Fred ran away. But then
we came back.
Victor called and said he was on his way to Caracas and I told him,
“Don’t do it, Victor, don’t do it.” I think he might get stopped at the border,
it’s too dangerous. I’m afraid he’s going to try something.
I was invited over to William F. Buckley’s for music at 6:00, they have
things like that.
Wednesday, December 6, 1978
These kids we hire at the office are just hopeless. For the first four weeks
Robyn’s worked there he was depositing his paycheck by mistake back into
the office’s account! He has his checking account in the same bank, and
instead of writing his own account number on the deposit slips, he was
writing the account number off the check he was depositing onto his deposit
slip! Vincent had to explain it to him.
Friday, December 8, 1978
Jackie Curtis came up. He made this point of calling a week in advance to
make an appointment to come up and see me, and he was supposed to bring
one other person. Well, it was like old times. Jackie arrived with fifteen
people. Two were photographers and he had David Dalton who’s writing a
book on him, and Jackie had no teeth and he’s fat, and he’s on
amphetamines again. But he’s still so clever. Somebody clever has to do
something with him, figure out how to use his talent. I thought maybe now
that we have Ivan Karp and Truman writing for Interview that we could
serialize Jackie’s book, but I brought them in to see Bob, and Bob was so
cranky, he’d been up all night thinking about his liver, and he said, “Give
the book to one of my assistants.” So we gave it to Brigid and she read it
later and called me and said it was sort of boring, that it was just tapes, and
she had no suggestions, she was just being negative.
Monday, December 11, 1978
There was a party at Xenon for the Superman opening. At the office in the
afternoon I saw Bob in a corner moping, looking blue. I mean, he can’t be
that unhappy, and he can’t be overworked. I mean, all he does is go to
parties (cab $3). Tinkerbelle and I started talking shop. She just did an
interview with David Warner for us. Tinkerbelle is so great, I don’t
understand why she hasn’t made it to the big time.
Wednesday, December 13, 1978
Chris Makos called and said that Donahue had a show on about singles over
(laughs) fifty. He was calling because we were supposed to go out looking
for a new camera. Cabbed to meet him at the camera store on 44th and
Madison ($5). Then we walked around Grand Central Station and I got
nostalgic—it was like twenty years ago when Grand Central used to be the
central point for me when I worked for Vogue and Glamour, which are right
around there, and my bank was right there, too.
Thursday, December 14, 1978
We went down to the office and the traffic was bad (cab $4). The Daily
News had just called wanting a quote from me, they said that fifty agents
had gone in and raided Studio 54 for income tax and that they’d busted Ian
Schrager for two ounces of coke.
A cute guy was in the office, a friend of Averil’s, and he didn’t know
he’d walked across the painting I’d just done, it was still wet. It was funny.
Friday, December 15, 1978
Bought two Daily Newses because Steve Rubell was all over them. Bianca
was on the cover (cab $4). Went home to glue, then over to Halston’s. He
was having a dinner because it was decided that Steve had to eat because he
hadn’t in three days—I (laughs) don’t know who decides these things. It
was “Stevie has to eat, he needs his nourishment.” Does that mean Dr.
Giller whispered in Halston’s ear, “Stevie needs nourishment?” Who starts
these things? So Halston was cooking short-order himself. Steak, french
fries, and salad. It was the first time I’ve ever seen everybody at Halston’s
eat. He’s had so many dinners where nobody eats anything, but this time
everybody was eating because (laughs) “Stevie” needed his nourishment.
[NOTE: After the bust at Studio 54, Andy began referring to Rubell as
Steve, not Stevie.]
This was about 9:30. And it was just family so Bianca wasn’t allowed to
invite her new Martha Graham dancer-boyfriend. Steve told us all about the
bust. He told eighteen different stories. He’s not going to have Roy Cohn be
the lawyer because he’s too conspicuous. They didn’t go there to arrest
anybody, just thirty-six IRS guys with guns to seize the books, but when
they found the coke on Ian they arrested him. Now Steve says it was just a
little, that it was just a Christmas gift, and he was blabbing all these
comments about “unwashed money.” I was surprised.
Saturday, December 16, 1978
Halston said I was invited up to Dr. Giller’s and that he’d pick me up. Put
my contacts in and Halston arrived in a cab. I told him it was the first time I
ever saw him in a cab, and then he got embarrassed, and then I was
embarrassed, I said that I always take them, that cabs are great, but then he
explained for the rest of the ride how he takes cabs a lot but that I just don’t
see him, because having the car sit around all day is expensive, and then I
was even more embarrassed. And he told me that any time I see his car
outside 54 when it’s late, to just take it home. Dr. Giller’s place is an exact
miniature copy of Halston’s. The same paintings, the same layout, the same
colors.
What Halston’s been most upset about in the Studio 54 bust is that the
IRS agents discovered another little room that nobody knew about, and
Halston is hurt because he’s such a close friend and Steve hadn’t told him
about it. Steve says it was an inside tipoff because nobody knew about the
room except the people who work there. But Steve and Ian are kind of mean
when they fire people, so it could have been anybody.
At Studio 54 later, I asked Potassa if she’d ever had sex with Dali, and
she said, “No, he just picked my cock up once and kissed it.” She said Dali
was coming back to town and that we had to resume our friendship. And
Potassa only drinks champagne. “Schom-pon-ye.” She said when Dali
kissed her cock he said, “Magnifico!”
Monday, December 18, 1978
Brigid’s down to 140 and looks good. Charles Rydell is staying at her
apartment and she’s so mean to him. She really is mean. He can’t watch her
TV, he can’t put his feet up, he can’t go to the bathroom. After everything
he’s done for her—I mean, he gave her handouts for years.
Truman called. He’s going to do some long slice-of-life pieces for
Interview. We’re going to tape him, and then Brigid will transcribe the
tapes, and then Truman will turn them into articles.
Tuesday, December 19, 1978
I’m watching Calvin Klein on The Phil Donahue Show. Halston said that
“Halston” perfume is the number-one seller in America. Can that be true?
The last time I was in Macy’s I didn’t see anybody at his counter. Oh, but
maybe I didn’t really look.
And Barbara Allen said Halston told her how much fun I am without
Bob and Fred around, that when I’m with them I don’t say anything and let
them take over, but that when I’m alone I talk and have fun. Halston has
such an odd idea of me. I should have called him yesterday. It’s so hard
being completely involved, though.
We went to Irving Blum’s gallery on East 75th Street to see the show of
my early stuff, and one of the Soup Cans was a fake. Irving was
embarrassed when I told him.
Victor called, he’s back from San Francisco. You really can’t kid with
him, because you say a word and that word goes deep into his brain and he
keeps thinking about it and he gets crazy. I called him “paranoid” and then
he started brooding over it.
I finally decided what I’m going to give all the Halston family for
Christmas—Halston and Steve and Dr. Giller and Bianca—paintings of a
free drink ticket from 54.
Cabbed to Tom Armstrong’s ($3.50). Merce Cunningham was there and
John Cage and Jasper Johns, but they were just about leaving. Leo Castelli
was there trying to dance with his drunk wife. I took pictures. Hilton
Kramer was there, the art critic. I’d never met him, so I met him. He’s the
one that hates my work. Mark Lancaster was there, I had fun with him.
Oh, I read a great column in the Times! It was something like “Funky,
Punky, and Junky,” and they had been talking about it at Tom Armstrong’s
—it was about “silly people” and it (laughs) had me in it a lot. No mention
of Steve Rubell, no Halston—just me, Marisa, Bianca, Truman, Lorna Luft
—the silly people and the silly places. And later, at Halston’s, Halston said
he’s glad he wasn’t mentioned because he said [imitates], “I’m! Not! Silly!”
And then everyone started calling Bianca “silly pussy, silly pussy.” And
Marisa came over and when she heard about the “silly” column she was
upset to be “silly.”
Oh, and have I said that Bob said that when he introduced Jerry Hall to
Tennessee Williams down in Washington a few weeks ago Tennessee told
her that she was the prettiest girl he’s met since Candy Darling.
Wednesday, December 20, 1978
I’d accepted Marisa’s dinner at Mortimer’s but just as I was leaving the
office I noticed in the book that it was the night of Jackie O.’s Christmas
party and I invited Bob and he said he was thrilled, that it made his day, that
it was a little something to look forward to. Cabbed to 1040 Fifth ($5).
When we got there it was sort of getting over with. Lee was there, leaving.
Caroline has turned into a raving beauty—she’s thin, her face is thin, her
skin is perfect, her eyes are beautiful. We were talking to her and then a cute
guy came over, Tom Carney. I asked her if it was her boyfriend and she said
yes. He writes for Esquire, he did the article on Tom McGuane. She asked
about her old flame from London, Mark Shand.
Jean Stein was there with the Russian poet she wanted to introduce to
society—some name like Andre Bosh-in-eck-shinsk. She’s still writing her
book on Edie. Cocktails were from 6:00 to 8:00 and then dinner was being
served for the people who didn’t leave. It was really good food —baked
ham and some new potato salad with red lettuce from Cape Cod—she
always goes to the best shops. Warren Beatty and Diane Keaton were there,
and Bob heard—overheard— Jackie saying that something Warren did in
the hall was “disgusting,” but we were never able to find out what it was.
We left around 9:00. Got the elevator down with Pete Hamill and the
Duchins.
Cabbed to Mortimer’s for Marisa’s dinner ($2). Marisa looked beautiful
in silver, and Paul Jasmin was with her. She’s finally leaving town. She’s
mad at Barbara Allen because Barbara was seeing her husband, Jim
Randall, out in California, so Barbara wasn’t invited. Steve told us that
Warren had fucked Jackie O., that he talked about it. Bianca said that
Warren had probably just made it up, that he made it up that he slept with
her, Bianca, and that when she saw him in the Beverly Wilshire she
screamed, “Warren, I hear you say you’re fucking me. How can you say
that when it’s not true?” and she said she embarrassed him. But then Bianca
said that Warren had a big cock, and Steve said how would she know, and
she said that all her girlfriends had slept with him. Oh, and Diana Ross was
at the dinner, she was fun.
So then after dinner everybody wanted to go to Studio 54. Steve had his
Mercedes, and Diana Ross was afraid to drive with him, but I assured her
that he was a great driver, which he is, even in his drugged states, and so
she squeezed in between us. Got there and it was jammed—some party for
CBS Records. Steve’s been having open bar since the bust. James Curley
was there with a girl he said he’s going to marry so he was cool to me. He
was in white tie and tails, he’d just been to a debutante ball—they’re all this
week.
Oh, and Bob was in heaven when we left Jackie O.’s party, raving about
how nice she’d been to him, pronouncing his name correctly and sharing
her glass of Perrier with him when the butler forgot to bring his—she said,
“It’s ours.”
Thursday, December 21, 1978
Yesterday Jackie O. kept calling me at the office. She called three or four
times. But I didn’t call back, because the messages were complicated—they
were like, “Call me at this number after 5:30, or before 4:00 if it’s not
raining.” And then finally she called me at home—I wonder how she got
the number—and that was strange. She sounded so tough. She said, “Now
Andy, when I invited you, I invited you—I didn’t invite Bob Colacello.”
She said she was upset because Bob “writes things.” And now that I think
about it, Caroline made some comment like that at the party. And I mean,
there were lots of journalists there—Pete Hamill and Caroline’s new
boyfriend. I told her not to worry, that Bob wasn’t going to write anything.
So something must have happened there that she doesn’t want written
about. She was thinking about it all day, I guess.
Catherine wanted to go to Cowboys (cab $2). It’s so great going in there,
a black hole with all boy beauties and all available. And then every other
person there is somebody. Charlie Cowles was there. Henry Post was there,
he’s one of these kids that I like that everybody else says is terrible, but
there’s something nice and intelligent about him. I asked him what he was
doing there and he said he was doing research for a story.
Friday, December 22, 1978
Bob picked up Paulette Goddard and then they came and picked me up.
When we got to the Iranian embassy I gave Hoveyda a print. And it was in
the papers that the Shah’s going to abdicate and his son’s going to ascend.
Paulette was acting nutty—I think she’s losing her marbles—she was
talking about her legs getting machine-gunned. And then when we were
inside at the table the wind blew the doors open and Paulette got up and was
crawling out of the dining room toward the doors to the buffet room …
well, not really crawling, but she got up and tried to flee the room, and
Hoveyda said, “Where are you going?” And she said, “I want to hide.” It
was peculiar. She kept saying that the evening was so “morbid” because all
the Iranians were looking for new jobs.
Bob dropped me home. When I was in bed, already asleep, around 2:00,
Victor called and told me to come over to Studio 54, that it was fun, that
they had snow all over the floors. But I didn’t.
Saturday, December 23, 1978
Talked to Tinkerbelle and she was saying how she makes out with
everybody she interviews, that she was making out with Christopher
Walken and that his wife was getting upset. She said she cut her arm falling
on the glass from a skylight—she’d broken into a friend’s apartment—she
thought they had some drugs in there. I guess Tinkerbelle’s really wild.
Sunday, December 24, 1978
Up early. New York was so unbusy, there were lots of cabs. Everybody
must have gone away because it was great, everything was open and
nothing was crowded. Then cabbed to Union Square ($3). I got Rupert to
come up and help me work, I decided to do prints of the Ali paintings.
Oh, and in the morning I called David Whitney to wish him a Merry
Christmas and Philip Johnson answered the phone and said he was cleaning
up because the big winds had blown in a sheet of glass—he was at the Glass
House in Connecticut—and it could have cut him in two. Isn’t that scary?
David wasn’t there, he was down at the greenhouse. Truman called and said
he was alone because Bob MacBride had to spend Christmas with his kids.
I worked all afternoon, left at 5:00, dropped Vincent and Rupert ($4.50).
Tom Cashin came over to the house for a fast turkey dinner before we
went to Diane Von Furstenberg’s. And Diane didn’t invite Bob Colacello to
her party. Now everybody’s saying that they only like me when Bob and
Fred aren’t around with me, that’s the new thing. Everybody’s being mean
to Bob. But they’ll be turning on me soon, too, probably.
But when we got to Diane Von Furstenberg’s she had a guilty pang and
started saying, “How could I be so evil? How could I be so rotten to Bob?”
and then she called him, but he was already going to Adriana Jackson’s, but
he said he’d come after dinner.
It was really raining when we were going over, really hard. It was a
horrible Christmas party with horrible people—about fifty of them—so I
didn’t see why she couldn’t have invited Bob in the first place.
Barry Diller was there and I guess the reason he and Diane are a couple
is because she gives him straightness and he gives her powerfulness. He’s
very powerful. And that producer Howard Rosenman was there, and
someone screamed, “Rosenwoman!” and that was funny. Truman was
having fun talking to Cappy Badrutt. She was the only fun person there.
Then we left for Halston’s. Catherine was there and I gave her a painting
with some of my come on it, but then Victor said it was his come, and then
we had a fight about that, but now that I think about it, it could have been
Victor’s.
Halston had a big fish. I had red wine and was getting so tired that when
Tom Sullivan put a crystal of coke on my tongue for the first time it really
worked on me. Just one little piece and it really woke me up. We were
going to Studio 54 and I knew that we’d be up until 5:00.
Monday, December 25, 1978
Went to church. Tom Cashin called to say Merry Christmas.
The turkey at Halston’s was ready at 9 P.M. It was really good. We
reviewed the night before. Halston revealed that Steve had spent the whole
day with Roy Cohn and that he was only coming over for a while, he had to
go back to see him some more.
At Studio 54 the IRS found a room full of cash. And now, when I think
about it, hearing how much money Steve actually had, he could have been
treating us so wonderfully. He could have been so generous and spending so
much, and he just wasn’t. He did take us to La Grenouille once, but it could
have been so much more.
And they were talking about Bianca’s divorce, Steve saying she should
hire Roy Cohn and sue Mick for everything, but the thing’s so complicated
—Bianca wants to get the divorce in London and Mick wants it in France
because France is where she signed the paper saying she wouldn’t get
anything in a divorce settlement.
Wednesday, December 27, 1978
Halston called inviting me to dinner for Diana Ross at his house. She was in
the tightest black pants, like she was poured into them, and she’s so skinny
—they were so tight she could hardly sit down. She was sitting next to me
and she talked the whole night, touching me, I guess she was on something.
She said that she told Cher she wouldn’t do her TV special, that Cher flew
up to Vegas to see her last week about it, but she turned it down. She said,
“That’s not my scene right now.” Diana uses the hip lines, she said, “I don’t
mind the girl, but …” Weren’t they best friends once?
Sunday, December 31, 1978
Fred’s in the Amazon—no, wait. The Andes. I talked to David Bourdon, he
was going to go to Rosenquist’s New Year’s Eve party. Rosenquist was
hiring a live band again. It was so successful the year before that he’s doing
it again.
I worked all afternoon at the office. It was nice working on New Year’s
Eve, I painted backgrounds. Walter Steding came over to help me. Ronnie
was having an Alcoholics Anonymous New Year’s, and Brigid stopped by
to pick up some tapes.
I didn’t know the evening at Halston’s was going to be so chic, my dear.
I’d asked if I could bring Jed and Halston said fine so we went over.
Catherine brought Tom and Winnie—Halston’d said fine to that, too. Tom
told me that he was giving Catherine and me points in the movie, and that
they had to reshoot a little more, that somebody had just given $150,000 so
they could. Bianca was in a Dior.
Oh, and Vincent called earlier and said that Mrs. Winters had called and
said that Mr. Winters had what they think was a heart attack.
Diana Ross looked beautiful. And she had asked Halston over the phone
if he was going to serve black-eyed peas at midnight because it was good
luck. So Steve went around town getting soul food. And when she got there
Halston was cooking ham hocks and ribs. A few people said to her, “Don’t
you want to check on the black-eyed peas?” They knew the peas were her
idea, and they were just trying to be nice. I guess she took it as an insult,
though, because she said, “No, thank you, darling, I think I’ve checked
them enough.”
And Mohammed the houseboy had a girlfriend there and she was Jake
LaMotta’s daughter. He’s that boxer Bobby De Niro’s playing in the new
Scorsese movie. She’s pretty.
While we were sitting at Halston’s we had the radio on and it was “live
from Studio 54,” and we heard the announcer saying, “Oh yes! Here they
come! Halston, Bianca, and Andy Warhol! They’re walking in the door
right now!”
Then we all did go to Studio 54. They had decorated it great, put silver
glitter on the floor, and they had someone on a trapeze, and white balloons.
And they were saying that Bobby De Niro had been there since 10:00.
They’d been having a press party.
The whole night was spent losing and finding and looking and finding
and looking. John Fairchild, Jr. has a crush on Bianca so we were looking
for her, and then losing her, and then losing him and finding her, and then
losing me, and looking for me, and losing him….
I was sober. I had lots of Perrier. The place was still jumping at 7:00.
Went outside, it was warm out, and people were still waiting to get in, as if
it were only 1:00. Only the light was different.
Monday, January 1, 1979
Maxime said she was giving me a dinner party, which I didn’t want. So I
told her to invite Bianca and the Herreras and I picked up Catherine. And I
also invited Allen Brooks, the porn star. Cabbed to 19th and Fifth ($5).
Gloria Swanson was there with her new young husband. Gloria used to be
married to Maxime’s ex-brother-in-law, the Count de la Falaise. And she
started saying, “I smell terrible fumes. I have to go to the window to get
away from them. Where are they coming from? Check your stove. I have a
very good nose and I know there are fumes escaping.” And I just knew it
was the perfume I had on that she was smelling. It was jasmine from Shelly
Marks. PH and I are doing research for a new perfume line and I was trying
it out. And so I didn’t want to go near Gloria. I went into the bathroom and
tried to wash it off, and then for the rest of the night I stayed about four feet
away from her even when she was trying to talk to me. I ran over and talked
to Sylvia Miles. Gloria looked good, though, with short grey hair. Maxime
served spaghetti.
Mario Amaya, that person who stopped by the Factory in ‘68 and wound
up getting shot in the arm by Valerie Solanis when she was shooting me—
he was there and he just quit his job at the Chrysler Museum in Norfolk.
Tuesday, January 2, 1979
Went to meet Truman at Dr. Orentreich’s office on 72nd and Fifth to tape
the two of them for Truman’s first “Conversations with Capote” series in
Interview. We went in the back door, and Dr. Orentreich gave us free
samples, and he thought it was an interview so he began babbling, saying
everything he’s doing. Then he removed the veins from my nose. I’ve had it
done before, by Dr. Domonkos. It doesn’t last, but for a while it looks great.
For about three months, then you have it done again. He said that the doctor
who sandpapered my nose twenty years ago had done a bad job, gone too
deep.
Truman’s getting a facelift, but Dr. Orentreich isn’t doing it himself—
somebody in his office is—it’s just going to be “supervised by” Dr.
Orentreich.
Friday, January 5, 1979
Bianca had invited so many people down to the office to see the pictures
I’m doing of her that it turned into a big lunch. And I’d invited all the kids
who come after me in Studio 54, I figured that when you see somebody in
the light all the glamour’s gone so it’d be a good way to end it all, let them
get a hard, cold look at me in the daylight. I invited Curley, and Justin, and
Pecker who got fired as a waiter at Studio 54 for serving drinks in the
ladies’ room. But since the ladies’ room there is always full of men,
anyway, I don’t know why they cared.
Bianca had tickets for the John Curry ice ballet show at the Minskoff
Theater. After the show we went backstage to see John Curry. The dressing
rooms at the Minskoff are new and beautiful, air-conditioned and
everything. Jade was with us. There’s something so good-looking about
John Curry, he’s so adorable, and when I was leaving he kissed me on the
mouth. They’re thinking of closing the show because he really hurt himself,
but they’re going to run it for another week.
Saturday, January 6, 1979
Walter Steding called and wanted to freelance, so I had him deliver a
Shadow painting up to John Curry (cab $10).
Vincent was calling Montauk because Mr. Winters was failing, and Mrs.
Winters was upset. I just couldn’t believe that anybody who looked as good
as Mr. Winters did was in bad health. But he has been really cranky, I think
last summer with Tom Sullivan out there really made him cranky.
Then Bob called and said that Rod Stewart and Alana Hamilton wanted
to see us for dinner, and that sounded like a fun thing. I worked at home
until 10:00, and then Bob picked me up and we went to Elaine’s (cab
$2.50). It turned out to be actually Swifty Lazar’s dinner party, and the
Erteguns were there, and Rod’s manager, I think, or assistant, he was funny,
talking gay with Bob. Well, the party was so stuffy, poor Rod looked
miserable, you could see he really wanted a good time, and they all wanted
blows and nobody had any. And then Françoise and Oscar de la Renta left
and suddenly—it was incredible—everything picked up. Who would think
that just two people leaving could do so much—the whole mood of the
dinner changed.
Rod and Alana had the most beautiful coats. He had black mink and she
had a matching white mink. He looked so great—he looked better than she
did.
Then we went to Studio 54. Truman was there. He goes up into the
crow’s nest where the DJ plays the records and it’s like his private office.
People come up to see him, and he stays until 8:00. Truman said that Ivan
Karp had seen Bob MacBride’s art and said he’d put him in a group show in
December of next year.
Rod and Alana were in the back, I introduced them to the manager. It’s
hard to get coke there now, they’re not really selling it. And some guy was
sort of bothering me and John Fairchild, Jr. came over and asked if I wanted
the guy beaten up, and I really should get to know him better because he
must have a bad temper which is always interesting.
Sunday, January 7, 1979
It was raining hard. As I was leaving the house John Curry called to thank
me for the Shadow painting I sent him. Went to Elaine’s to have dinner with
Phyllis Diller (cab $2.50). Barry Landau arranged it so he was there.
Phyllis was cute, she’s a happy divorcée. Right as I was talking to
Phyllis she finally realized that I was the person who’d asked if I could
draw her foot in around 1958. She was just starting out then—it may have
been at the Bon Soir or someplace, and all these years she never put it
together that that was me and this is me, and so she said, “Oh, you’re the
foot fetishist!”
Phyllis didn’t eat much. Tommy Smothers was with us and so was
Tommy Tune. He said that Elaine’s had the best food he’d had in so long,
and everybody looked at him like he was nuts. He must be.
Then Adolph Green started coming toward the table with his arms out so
(laughs) Barry Landau whispered to Phyllis quickly that she had just sent a
bottle of champagne over to him. Because Barry had sent a bottle and
signed it from her. And Tommy Smothers was tongue-kissing Phyllis and so
I said, “If you can tongue-kiss her, you can tongue-kiss me.” So he gave me
a quarter of a tongue-kiss and said he’d give the rest when he knew me
better.
Then we went to Studio 54 and it was very empty. John Fairchild, Jr.
was there and he asked to borrow money, so I ripped a hundred-dollar bill
in half and that upset him, but it was a memorable moment. And I didn’t
realize it at the time, that he probably had his coat on only because he didn’t
have enough money to check it.
And Halston is funny—no matter how many times we run into each
other on the floor he grabs me and hugs me and kisses me and says, “It’s so
nice to meet you, Mr. Warhol.” Paid John Fairchild, Jr. for bodyguarding me
($20).
Monday, January 8, 1979
Vincent called and told me that Mr. Winters had died.
Did I say that Fred called the office the other day? He wasn’t even in
Bogota yet, they were in some small town. He said that he and Rachel Ward
fell out of the boat and she wasn’t coming up, but then she did come up. He
said it was really dangerous. He’s with three or four Kennedys and Rebecca
Fraser.
Tuesday, January 9, 1979
I wanted to see The Wiz, so Jed and I cabbed to the Plaza (cab $2, tickets
$10). The movie looked so cheap, and they made Diana Ross so ugly and
they made Michael Jackson ugly. Sidney Lumet must hate women—he
photographed them “up,” you could see right up Lena Horne’s nostrils.
She’s his ex-mother-in-law. The play was a lot better, with the Geoffrey
Holder dancers.
Wednesday, January 10, 1979
Talked to Vincent, he went out to Montauk to see Mrs. Winters. He told her
she could stay on if she wanted—she has a son and Mr. Winters had a son,
so maybe they can help her and maybe she can stay on there alone.
Thursday, January 11, 1979
Fred was back from his trip, very very happy because he lost twenty
pounds, he’s back to 120, and sporting a mustache and he looks great, very
young.
He brought me back an emerald, it’s the smallest one I’ve ever seen—
blink and you miss it. It’s a tenth of a carat and comes with a certificate and
the certificate is really cute.
Went to dinner at La Grenouille with Phyllis Diller and Barry Landau
(cab $4). A lot of people were asking Phyllis for her autograph and not me,
and afterwards she (laughs) said to me, “Oh I’m sorry, dear, I felt so bad for
you.”
Friday, January 12, 1979
Tinkerbelle brought Christopher Walken down to lunch so that she could
have a date with him. He’s such a big star now that he really threw me when
he said, “A couple of years ago I was Monique Van Vooren’s dancing
partner.” (laughs) Isn’t that something? I guess when Monique was doing
her act at that room that doesn’t exist anymore. Not the Maisonette, maybe
the Rainbow Room. He has a mustache now. He said Monique gave him the
name “Christopher.”
Sunday, January 14, 1979
Went to the Eberstadts’ for dinner (cab $2). Earl and Camilla McGrath were
there, and Sam and Judy Peabody. Somehow Isabel sat in the wrong place,
and so everybody’s place card was wrong, and so then Isabel said that
everyone should pretend to be the person their place card said. So I
pretended to be Isabel—I had her card—and (laughs) I kept excusing
myself to go to the bathroom. I guess maybe that was mean.
Monday, January 15, 1979
Fred went out to Connecticut to see Peter Brant about possibly buying the
Muhammad Ali portfolios. Peter kept him waiting an hour, and then gave
him a hard time because he and Joe Allen haven’t made any money yet
from their investment in Bad.
Tuesday, January 16, 1979
The Shah left Iran. He stopped in Egypt and he’s going to Texas where his
son is training for the air force, and then the television said he’s going to
stay with the Walter Annenbergs in California. I don’t know what they think
they’re doing—they practically showed a road map on television, aerial
views of the place.
Tinkerbelle said how could I tell people that she’d given Chris Walken a
blow job and I told her I didn’t tell anybody, that I didn’t even know.
Thursday, January 18, 1979
It was the first time I ever saw people actually flying around the streets, it
was so windy. Cabbed to Union Square ($3) and that’s where I really saw
people in the air. If you were on the sunny side of the street it was nice,
beautiful, but then when you’d hit a corner you’d get blown away. People
were holding on to things. Went to the office. Stephen Mueller and Ronnie
were finishing stretching Shadow paintings for my show next week.
Saturday, January 20, 1979
Bob had Brigid helping him all day, writing the text for the photo book, and
I mean, they’re crazy—they called me up and read me some of the stuff and
they have me talking about Lee Radziwill and Jackie O. in the book as if
they’re my best friends. I wanted to throw up. Worked and watched
television.
Sunday, January 21, 1979
I watched the Superbowl and it was exciting, really good. Jo Jo Starbuck’s
husband is Terry Bradshaw of the Steelers and he got two touchdowns in
fourteen seconds. She’s the female star in the John Curry show. Then the
Cowboys got two more. But the Steelers won. Then Tom Cashin and Jay
Johnson came over and they were going to a movie, but I didn’t want to go.
Tuesday, January 23, 1979
Cabbed down to Heiner Friedrich’s gallery on West Broadway ($5). Fred
wasn’t there yet. Ronnie and Stephen Mueller were there hanging pictures.
The show looked good, the gallery’s so big.
Got to the office about 4:30. Bob was upset because The New York
Times had called and said they were interested in reprinting Truman’s
column and Truman has the copyright, so Bob is worried that now Truman
will start doing it for the Times instead of Interview. But I don’t think
Truman would. He probably wants to turn them into a book eventually.
And Tom Sullivan came by and he was acting crazy. He kept saying that
he wanted to give me 25 percent of his business, just for nothing. But what
is his business? And he kept saying that everybody thinks he made his
money in heroin or cocaine but that it wasn’t those two, that it was
something else. But I mean, what else could it be? Marijuana? Catherine’s
getting her green card this week. It took three years.
When I got home Mrs. de Menil had called and left a message that she
was very very touched by seeing my show at Heiner’s gallery.
Thursday, January 25, 1979
Brigid was down to 120 but I caught her eating in Bob’s office, everything
that’s bad for her—fried potatoes, fried scallops, mayonnaise. She was
getting ready for the Shadows opening all day, she went home and put on
all her jewelry.
People kept wandering in and out all day. They were sending a limo for
me and it came at 5:00. I glued, and took some of the kids down there with
me. It was snowing a little.
It wasn’t too many people at first. Actually, it was a big business
gathering. Barbara Colacello had gotten free champagne and Seagram’s and
Evian and some other free liquor and drinks, telling them that the society
people would be coming down.
But it turned out that out of the 400 people Bob invited, only 6 came.
Six out of 400: Truman Capote, the Eberstadts, Fereydoun Hoveyda, who
just resigned as ambassador, and the Gilmans. So 394 of our best friends
were no-shows.
No Halston—he was in Mustique.
No Steve—he was, too.
No Catherine.
It turned out to be more of a punk opening, all the wonderful usual
fantasy kids that go to openings like that. And René Ricard was there. Mrs.
de Menil came, and she was sweet, and François, he was sweet. But Addie
and Christophe de Menil didn’t come. David Bourdon and Gregory
Battcock, it was fun to see them, but we didn’t get a chance to talk.
A lot of kids had their own cameras, they were looking in vain for
celebrities to take pictures of. Victor was the only well-dressed person—an
umbrella and black pearls.
The bathroom was crowded, I guess people were coking up. We got a
group together to go to dinner—Jed, John Reinhold, John Fairchild, Jr. and
his girlfriend Belle McIntyre, William Pitt, and Henry Post. Bob was mad at
me for inviting Henry Post, he says he does those exposé-type articles, and
maybe he’s right, maybe I will get myself into trouble.
We were limoing to 65 Irving Place to “65 Irving.” And on the way, near
Washington Square, we saw a dog get hit by a cab and a woman was
screaming, and we offered her the limo to take the dog to the hospital, but
she said her husband was getting the car, and it ruined the whole night. It
made me feel funny.
Philippa invited René Ricard—her Dia Foundation just signed him up
for benefits as the first poet—so he arrived at 65 Irving and was saying that
my work was just “decorative.” That got me really mad, and I’m so
embarrassed, everybody saw the real me. I got so red and was telling him
off, and then he was screaming things like that John Fairchild, Jr. was my
boyfriend—you know how horrible René is—and it was like one of those
old Ondine fights, and everybody was stunned to see me so angry and out
of control and screaming back at him. And do you know that René has an
agent now? And do you know who that agent is? Gerard Malanga. And I
mean, René acts as if he’s such a wonderful writer, but he just has one idea
and he keeps repeating it over and over—about how he’s wined and dined
by the rich and how you should get things for free, that same old stuff.
Luckily Henry Post missed this fight, he was at another table.
I have another opening on Saturday, this one was just a preview. The
show only looks good because it’s so big.
Friday, January 26, 1979
Jenette Kahn—she’s the president of D.C. Comics, a friend of Sharon
Hammond’s—called and invited me to see the Knicks on Monday because
she wants me to paint the floor of the Knicks’ basketball court.
Paul Morrissey called from California and said that Carlo Ponti called
him and offered him a script and Paul said—Paul said he said—that he
wouldn’t do a movie for him until he straightened out the money he owes
me over Frankenstein and Dracula. Ponti probably thought he could buy
Paul off by offering him a movie. Which I’m sure he can. Paul was calling
about Bobby De Niro wanting to maybe rent Montauk, and Paul was saying
to give him a cheap price so he’d be sure to take it because it’d be great to
have him there, but I think we should raise the price—we’re not making
enough renting Montauk to run it.
Saturday, January 27, 1979
This was the day I had to go back to Heiner’s gallery for the real opening.
And it’s so great, such a great feeling, when people ask me how many of
the paintings have been sold, to just be able to say, “They’re all sold.”
Governor Rockefeller died.
Sunday, January 28, 1979
Got up early and my bones ached from standing so long the day before,
greeting 3,000 people. Fred called and invited me to mix with the Kennedys
at his place at 10:00 before the Studio 54 party for Pilar Crespi. And Tom
Cashin came by to take me to a models party, but I was too worn out.
I saw a little of Taxi Driver on TV and the guy at the end reading the
letter from Pittsburgh really sounded like he was (laughs) reading from
Pittsburgh.
Oh, and on the news the lady who hijacked the plane said she had
nitroglycerin and wanted Charlton Heston and Wonder Woman to read her
letter on TV? She looked like a normal schoolteacher … she was from
California. There were some famous people on that flight—the Jackson 5’s
father and the guy who was with Mary Martin in Sound of Music on
Broadway.
Monday, January 29, 1979
Rupert came to the office and I gave him a talk about going around telling
people that he does my paintings. But he’s drinking too much so he still
thinks he does them. Went to Madison Square Garden (cab $3). Jenette
Kahn wanted me to meet Sonny Werblin who is the president of Madison
Square Garden to talk to him about painting the floor for the Knicks. Just
like Bob Indiana did for his home team out in Indiana. We talked to Sonny
and he said it sounded like a good idea. He asked to see the floor that Bob
Indiana had done and Jenette has already sent away for pictures of it. The
game was boring. The Knicks are slow, they’re a good team but they’re too
slow, they miss so many baskets—the other team got every basket they tried
for.
Then I had to take Jenette to dinner and she said she’d like to go to
Trader Vic’s. Had to do small talk for a couple of hours. I think she has a
crush on me. She’s intelligent and glamorous with big tits, a good head.
And she’s very organized. She can spell things out. I’m convinced that if
you can spell things out very simply and say everything clearly right away,
you’ll be a success in business. Like Bob Denison can do that. And Jenette
does it with charm, she comes right out direct and says things—like what
we wanted from Sonny Werblin.
And on that plane that was hijacked was also Joe Armstrong, Sue
Mengers, Max Palevsky, Theodore Bikel, and Dino Martin, Jr. How did
they avoid the camera? Sue had the best line: “If anything happens to me,
take care of my coat.”
Tuesday, January 30, 1979
I gave Rupert another talk about saying he does my paintings for me and he
decided that he shouldn’t drink again for a while.
David Whitney was telling me that the house on 54th Street where
Nelson Rockefeller died was the house he used for having fun. Diana
Vreeland was funny the other night, she said, “Of course Nelson was with a
girl—he was always with a girl. Nelson wanted everyone to be happy. And
why not? He was a Rockefeller—he could make everybody happy.” Then
somebody said, “But what about Happy?”
Wednesday, January 31, 1979
I worked all afternoon. Then cabbed all the way down to Delia Doherty’s
fashion show at Lafayette and Canal Street ($5). She had paper clothes
made out of tubing. The girls had to be rolled in, they couldn’t walk or talk.
It was absolutely great. Jane Forth was there, she was just back from South
America doing the makeup on a movie with Carol Lynley. Jane said that
she’s going back to makeup school because you can make more doing scars
and burns than straight makeup. She’s got a fat ex-lady cop who takes care
of Emerson, the baby she had with Eric Emerson. He’s eight or nine now.
He’s taking ballet lessons, he’s following in his father’s footsteps.
Friday, February 2, 1979
John Reinhold called in the morning and said he’d like to take me to his
wife’s gallery on 78th Street (cab $2). She just went off to Europe to look
for some more posters and things. The gallery had a wonderful exhibition of
old movie posters, like Garbos from the twenties, the huge beautiful posters
that were printed in German, they’re about 8’ x 10’—things like the original
King Kong and Charlie Chaplin. I always bought the smaller American
movie posters and they’re just not worth anything. The original Cassandre
posters are selling for $35,000. Can you believe it? And when I think of
how I let them slip through my fingers. A print of one is about $5,000 or
$10,000. Posters. Can you believe it?
Had lunch at that place called Three Guys on Madison and 75th and it’s
a really good sandwich shop, a lot of kids came in, there must be a school
right around there. And there was a girl behind us using “shit” and “fuck” to
her mother, and whatever the mother would say to her, the kid said, “You
are insulting me, mother,” and you just wanted to slap her and kick her a
few times —a little snot-nose. She was about fourteen and the mother was
about thirty-five, and her mother was crying. You know when you get your
mother and you really put the screws in? Well, this kid was doing it, she
was disgusting. Then I dropped John at his office and went down to Union
Square (cab $4.50).
Sunday, February 4, 1979
I was mentioned in a Victorian Art article in The New York Times magazine
section by Hilton Kramer, who put me down.
Monday, February 5, 1979
Halston called and invited us to dinner with Liza and Liz and Dolly Parton
and Lorna and so went home to change. Walked over to Halston’s, but then
Liza wanted to take me and Jed over to her place at 40 Central Park South
to look at her boyfriend Mark Gero’s sculpture. She said she’d only keep us
five minutes.
He wasn’t there—he was playing poker with his buddies at some
Mexican restaurant on 86th Street and she was going there to meet him—
but she made me write a note saying how good the stuff was and that I
would get him a show. It was tits out of marble and alabaster and wood, and
she was rubbing the tits while we talked. Liza hasn’t moved into her house
in Murray Hill yet. It’s so sad to see her apartment, because she really has
no taste, and Halston’s trying to give her taste, trying to get Jed to do her
apartment, but I think all she really cares about is working, she doesn’t care
about decorating.
We dropped her off at the poker game and I dropped Jed off, this was
around 2:00, and then I went back to Halston’s. Dolly didn’t show up,
neither did Liz. Halston and Dr. Giller said they were “unwinding.” I don’t
know from what.
Thursday, February 8, 1979
Worked at the studio then had to leave early. Dropped Bob (cab $4). Went
to Neil Sedaka’s place, 510 Park Avenue, for cocktails before the Police
Athletic League dinner. I met Leba a few weeks ago and she said they
wanted a portrait. The Sedakas are subletting this place until their apartment
is finished. All the talk was about how hard it was getting into a building
because they’re Jewish and entertainers, and an older couple was there who
got them in. A lot of the people were in black tie. I looked the worst, in my
old jeans and a sweater, but Neil was casual, in a sweater, California-style,
although he’s from Brooklyn. He seems like a fairy but he’s not. I don’t
know how his portrait will come out, though, because he’s chubby. The
decorator who’s doing their apartment was there with his boyfriend and we
had cocktails, it was fun.
Friday, February 9, 1979
Fred was going off to Berlin and Diana Ross called and said she wanted me
to do a portrait of her and her kids and that her manager would call about it,
so now with Fred out of town I guess I’ll have to deal with that myself.
At Studio 54 I met young John Samuels, who’s really handsome, like a
young Robert Wagner.
Saturday, February 10, 1979
I hadn’t gotten to bed until about 6:00 and then Victor called and started
talking about ideas, did I have any “sophisticated ideas.” He was working,
he said, and also in the middle of hosting a party for twelve kids he’d
picked up at the Anvil.
Went over to Truman’s for his facelifting party. He had to check into the
hospital the next morning, Sunday, and have the lift on Monday, but he
wasn’t telling anybody which hospital. I had Janet Villella and a “Du Pont”
twin with me—these two twin brothers who say their name is Du Pont but I
think they just made it up. When we got to Truman’s Truman wasn’t happy
about seeing the twin because once at Studio 54 Jacques Bellini who this
twin is in love with had him go over to Truman and say awful things, and
Truman remembered. The other twin is Rupert’s boyfriend. Bob Colacello
was there, and Bob MacBride and Halston were there, and Dr. Giller who
said he’d tried to call me and gotten very jealous when another man
answered the phone. Jed picked up my line. Truman was trying to get me to
eat lots of chocolate, he thinks I like it so much, which I don’t, really.
Commissioner Geldzahler was there with his new boyfriend who’s cute.
Henry said he told Mayor Koch he wanted a badge for being commissioner
so the mayor gave him one. He flashed it. Christopher Isherwood’s
boyfriend, Don Bachardy, was there.
Sunday, February 11, 1979
Mica Ertegun called and told me that the lunch at Mortimer’s was changed
from 1:00 to 1:30.
I went out to church and ran into Gary Wells in bright green pants
coming back from church, and I was surprised to see him out so early
because I’d seen him at Studio 54 so late the night before.
After church cabbed to Mortimer’s ($2). The place was jammed, but I
was the first person there for the lunch which was for Hélène Rochas and
Kim D’Estainville. Jerry Hall was there, she was putting down Bianca now
that Bianca is suing for half of what Mick’s got. The case is in the
California courts where all the live-in suits are going on now—like that’s
where the Hunt girl got support from Mick for the illegitimate kid. I told
Mica we have to turn Ahmet gay so he won’t be pinching all the girls. He
really is funny—we were thinking of dumb ideas for musicals, like jogging
—Jogging. And they’re all surprised that I’m talking so much lately, they
think I’m a new person.
Monday, February 12, 1979
Forgot to remember the most important thing—lunch on Friday at
Christie’s. I picked Bob up and we walked over there and this guy had all
this jewelry there for me to look at and he said, “You can get it cheap.” And
that’s when it started to dawn on me—these auction houses can put the
gavel down any time they feel like it. Right? Right? Think about it: Like
you’ll be at Sotheby’s and the guy will go, “Twennnty dolllars … thirrrrty
dollllars …” You know, really milking it, so slow. But then some other time
it’ll be: “Nine thousand-nine five-ten-ten five-sold! History!” You know?
So fast. So then they took us down and showed me the drawings of mine
that are up for sale, and there was one fake.
And Christie’s is doing a big dress sale, selling Diors and Schiaparellis
and things. They’ll get $8-10,000 for a Fortuny. So I’ve just got to track
down that man who had that great shop in the Village—Fabulous Fashions.
He had to move and now he’s somewhere on West End Avenue, selling out
of his apartment. I’ve got to find him.
And Iran really fell. It’s so weird watching it all on TV, it really could
happen here. And Brigid was telling me about the boy on the news whose
mother died and he didn’t tell anybody, he just kept her in the house for
eight months.
Tuesday, February 13, 1979
Truman said he thinks Interview should become more like the original
Vanity Fair. He was telling Brigid lots of ideas for Interview, saying he
wanted to have regular Monday morning editorial meetings of the staff. But
meetings like that are just a big waste of time. Other magazines do it that
way, but everybody at Interview just sort of does their own job. Other
magazines schedule those big long meetings and that’s when all these
people’s ideas about themselves and their positions come out—the “power”
things. The meetings just bring out whether people think they’re better or
you’re better.
Thursday, February 15, 1979
John Fairchild, Jr. called and said he would pick me up at 6:30 to go out to
the Brooklyn Academy to see Twyla Tharp at a Hair benefit Lester Persky
was putting on. He came in a limo with Henry Post and William Pitt and
Marita and Teri Garr, she’s very nice. The driver got lost but we were there
on time. Everybody was there. Mike Nichols even said hello to me. I guess
he felt he had to after making me meet the Polish Warhol. Dr. Warchol.
The dancing, it’s a funny new kind of dancing, falling and tripping, and
it looks like disco dancing. It looks like if you had a creative person on the
disco floor, that they would do this (intermission drinks $10). Jack Kroll
was there.
Henry Post told me that John Fairchild, Jr. snuck him into Studio 54 the
other night—Henry’s been barred for what he wrote in his article about the
club and when Ian Schrager saw him he asked him to “leave in a
gentlemanly fashion.” He said he started to argue that it was a public place,
but then he got scared.
I really don’t know why Pat Cleveland and Sterling St. Jacques never
did any other of their dancing up into an act. Although Ronnie tells me that
Pat’s going to be performing down at the Mudd Club. That’s the latest club
for young kids, it’s down around White Street. Ronnie’s the oldest one there
—he’s booking a reggae concert. They dropped me off and it was snowing
and pretty.
Friday, February 16, 1979
I called the Neil Sedakas and they were out but the decorator was in, and he
invited me up first to his office on 81st and Park and then to go over to see
the Sedakas’ apartment that he decorated before they move in, on 85th and
Park. I went up to the decorator’s and he has like a private entrance in a big
building. It’s a beautiful office but it’s decorated horribly. He had paintings
like I’ve seen at other people’s apartments, they’re just like scribbles and I
don’t think he paints them, but it’s somebody’s paintings. I just couldn’t
face asking him whose they were. I’m going to, though. He wears
Christopher Street clothes, army boots and a leather jacket and chinos, and
he has a mustache and a beard. He looks like Victor, like a Gay Bob doll.
Then he took me upstairs to see his partner’s apartment, and she had a
duplex with more scribble paintings.
Then we went over to the Sedakas’ apartment. The renovation job looks
like it’s costing $3 or $400,000 and they’re doing things like moving a door
one inch. But they’re putting in saunas and things.
Cabbed to U.N. Plaza ($3). Truman looked like Dr. Frankenstein had
just finished with him. He had scars up and down and across his face. He
looked like he had the little screw missing. Then we cabbed over to Dr.
Orentreich’s office ($4) and we slipped in the back way. It was like
sneaking in with Garbo. Okay, let me describe Truman’s costume: He had a
scarf over his head, then a funny little hat with folds in it and a babushka
and a jacket and a scarf over his mouth and dark glasses and a leather jacket
and a coat. I mean with these scarves and funny hats draped all over him, he
was so conspicuous. Otherwise nobody would have noticed him and he
would have been just a strange person with blood leaking down his face.
And he decided he wanted more done—he wanted more pain, I guess—
so he was going to have the fold on the bridge of his nose done, too, right
then. It’s an operation that Truman says he invented and that Dr. Orentreich
has rehearsed on two women first, and now he was ready to give it to
Truman.
There were eight really beautiful nurses. It was like watching Hugh
Hefner and his Bunnies. And they said to Orentreich, “What a great sewer
you are, doctor.” When he was done tucking Truman’s furrow—the furrow
had been about a quarter-inch and the scar was about three inches—they
glued him up. Truman was awake, and he said it didn’t hurt, but I don’t see
how it couldn’t have. He made an appointment for Monday to take the
stitches out.
Then we cabbed back to U.N. Plaza and Truman was talking about “our
magazine.” He said that in addition to the big editorial meetings, he wanted
to have an opinion page and letters-to-the-editor column and now I’m just
bracing myself for some letter to arrive from his lawyers.
He says his next improvement is hair transplants. He said his troubles
were all because of John O’Shea and that now he really hates him. But then
later Brigid told me that he had her send O’Shea a subscription to Interview.
Saturday, February 17, 1979
I told Susan Blond I’d meet her at the Palladium Theater down on 14th
Street to see an English group called the Clash (cab $5). Ron Delsener took
us to a little room. We sat around there and then a couple came in who I
didn’t recognize but it turned out to be Carrie Fisher and Paul Simon. I
never recognize him. Bruce Springsteen came in and I didn’t recognize him,
either. He was sweet, he said, “Hello, remember me?” and he took off his
glove to shake hands. I met him at Madison Square Garden when I took a
picture of him that I wasn’t supposed to.
Blondie—Debbie Harry—was there and when we got backstage there
was Nico! With John Cale! And she looks beautiful again, absolutely
beautiful, she’s finally thin in the face. Her hair’s dark brown, but John’s
having her dye it bright red. They’re opening at CBGB and she’s going to
sing “Femme Fatale” from the first Velvet Underground album and John’s
going to play his violin. She’s staying at the Chelsea.
The Clash are cute but they all have bad teeth, sticks and stumps. And
they scream about getting rid of the rich. One of them said he didn’t want to
go anywhere downtown—that he wanted to be shown uptown. So I said
okay, we’d go to Xenon and Studio 54.
Monday, February 19, 1979
George Washington’s Birthday, it was twelve inches of snow,
Had lunch with Peter Beard and Cheryl Tiegs. She’s a toughie, so she’ll
probably make Peter marry her. I’ve decided Peter’s just a playboy, though.
He’s really looking great, he never ages (lunch $100, tip $30). Cheryl said
she wants to be in movies, so I told her she’d have to lower her voice, like
Betty Bacall did—talk from the lungs, not from the nose. She said that
people like her the way she is, though. They’d let their limousine go, so
they walked home.
Wednesday, February 21, 1979
Before I left the office Mrs. Neil Sedaka called and invited me to a party for
Neil, so I cabbed up there ($5). Everybody was thrilled I came. When I saw
Neil, I couldn’t help it, I like him so I told him he was just too fat to have
his portrait done and that he had to lose weight. I just can’t face painting
him so fat. He said that fat was his image, that people like him fat, but I
mean, I’m sure he overeats. He said he’d just had three vodkas. Maybe I
went too far. I’m supposed to do him next week.
Saturday, February 24, 1979
Got up early. Brigid called, she was all the way up to 150 pounds. It was
warm and rainy outside and I wanted to go down to Heiner’s gallery early
so I could pass out 1,000 Interviews that afternoon (cab $6). Got there about
12:30 and I started working. I can’t believe that I actually gave out 1,000
but I did. Rupert and the Du Pont twins came by and for a break I took them
and the gallery kids over to Robata, the Japanese restaurant around the
corner ($90). Left the gallery around 6:30. A girl who said she went to high
school with me was there and she’d brought a copy of the school yearbook
and asked if I wanted to see it and I told her I’d like it better if she didn’t
show it.
Sunday, February 25, 1979
Went to church, bought batteries ($12.22). Cabbed to U.N. Plaza ($3).
Truman was having a lunch for Buckminster Fuller—Bob MacBride just
did an interview with him for Interview. He’s eighty-three, he can’t hear so
well, he was cute. Truman looks great. He’s going for hair transplants this
week. He’s going down to Georgia to do an interview for us, but he won’t
say who it’s with. I issued him a tape recorder and a camera. Two travel
agents were there and Bill Lieberman, the curator of drawings and prints at
MOMA for years, he’s an old friend.
Monday, February 26, 1979
Cab to Chembank ($4). I worked all afternoon painting faces’ backgrounds
at the office. Joe Dallesandro called from Paris. He says he drinks a bottle
of whiskey a day. He wants money, and I don’t know what we’re going to
do with Joe. We were warned he’d call because Terry Dallesandro came by
the other day. She’s still living on Staten Island, and she looked good, she
had makeup on. She said Joe wasn’t sending her any money. I wonder if
she’s on welfare? Little Joe wasn’t with her, he was in school. He’s eight
now. She still doesn’t have any interests. She said she never even picks up
something to read, and she said she can’t really do anything, she doesn’t
even know secretarial stuff, and she only has a tenth-grade education. I
asked what little Joey was interested in, and she said he was (laughs) taking
karate lessons.
Joe said that he had a “film on the fire,” but that’s what he said the last
time. Oh, and Terry said that six months after Joe’s brother Bobby hung
himself, another boy who lived in that same foster home on Long Island
that Joe and Bobby grew up in also committed suicide.
Rupert called—both of the Du Pont twins have moved in with him on
White Street.
Thursday, March 1, 1979
Walked to the office and I ran into John Head and Lorne Michaels coming
in for the meeting that we were having with them to talk about a TV show.
They said they’d give me a show if we could give him the right look. I think
they just wanted to come and get ideas, though, because when you do a TV
show, you do run out of them. But unless you’re the producer of your own
show you never make money so I think we should start at the bottom and do
it ourselves and learn everything that way.
Went home and changed and cabbed to the Plaza ($2) to meet John
Fairchild, Jr. and Belle McIntyre, and William Pitt and Rupert (drinks $70).
John had invited a bunch of fairies so that he wouldn’t have any
competition for Belle. They have a strange relationship—I don’t think he’s
going to bed with her, but he somehow feels that he is and gets jealous.
We walked to Regine’s. It was so beautiful out. Belle started dancing
with one of the twins and John got so jealous and he was going crazy and I
just tried to hold him in my arms—he was so schizo—and then William Pitt
said that the only way to stop it was to leave, to go to Studio 54. So we did
(cab $4).
Friday, March 2, 1979
Brigid was eating and eating and when I tried to stop her we had a
confrontation. She said, ‘I’ll eat whatever I want to and don’t try to stop me,
I’ll go over 150 if I want.” So then I just took all the food and lined it up
next to her on the table and told her, “Go ahead. Eat.”
Went uptown to a meeting with Bob Guccione. He wanted to talk to me
about photographing nude girls for twelve or thirteen pages. He lives in a
sort of Renaissance Italian place on East 67th Street. It looks awful.
Everything looks so dirty, that look, that feeling.
Sunday, March 4, 1979
One of the Du Pont twins told Susan Blond that he’s so in love with me. He
told her all these nutty things, and I mean, all I do is (laughs) hold his hand
and feel him up.
Then Jim, the agent or manager of the Beach Boys—he’s interested in
art—invited me to the Beach Boys concert at Radio City, and I invited Tom
Cashin. Then the phone rang as I was leaving, and I thought it was Dennis
Wilson when he said, “It’s Dennis,” but then five minutes into the call I
realized it was Dennis Hopper when he said, “The Beach Boys? They’re in
town? Where’re they playing?” I told him to meet us at Radio City (cab $3).
I was sitting having fun with the kids on one side of the stage and then
Dennis Hopper called me over to the other side where he was being crazy
and silly with the girlfriends and wives. Groupies, really. It’s so funny to
see groupies in their thirties—their late thirties.
I slipped out at intermission and then later on someone told me that they
made a big announcement from the stage that I was there, so now they must
hate me. We were going over to Laurent, where Dali had invited us for
dinner, he had about forty people there. He’s really generous with these
kids. Then the kids wanted to go to the Xenon party for Pelé. New York is
so filled with Brazilians that it’s like Carnival here.
Monday, March 5, 1979
Went to Mercedes Kellogg’s lunch for Ralph Destino of Cartier’s. Gossiped
about Barbara Allen. She was spotted down in Florida or Barbados with Bill
Paley. One of those places. Nicky Vreeland saw them and told Diana, and
Diana told Bob. I was back home at 12:30 and I passed out because of the
heavy rain.
Tuesday, March 6, 1979
I cabbed down to Union Square and handed out Interviews (cab $4). And
then I walked over to the office, 1:00. Neil Sedaka arrived and he’s just
adorable, he’s great. We had Jane Forth there to do the makeup and little
Emerson was with her. Neil posed, and it was hard to get a good picture, his
face is so fat. We worked an hour on it.
Thursday, March 8, 1979
Jean Stein called Brigid at the office, she wants to interview her for the Edie
Sedgwick book that she’s still doing. It’s such a camp now, she’s got like
eighteen people working on it—she has George Plimpton editing it. So she
called Brigid and Brigid had Robyn Geddes say she wasn’t there, and then
Dennis Hopper called a few minutes later and Brigid took that call and they
were talking and Brigid was putting down Jean Stein saying she was
pestering her, and it turns out that Dennis is staying with Jean. Then later on
Viva called from California and started trouble—she told Brigid that if
Brigid didn’t cooperate with Jean that Jean would put everything horrible
about her in the book and that Brigid couldn’t sue because it was all true.
And Dennis probably hates us, too, because I didn’t go to his cocktail
party. I didn’t go because I forgot, but I knew I was never going to go and
that’s why I didn’t remember. But Dennis is wanting me to go to Mexico to
meet some friends of his, and Dennis and his group always did know all the
rich people, but they’re so sixties and they’re crazy.
I tried to work on the text for the photo book with Brigid and Bob, but
every time I made a suggestion Bob would scream at me at the top of his
voice that it was great the way it was and then Brigid would scream it was
great, too. Bob raises his voice so much I really do think he’s nuts. So I
don’t know what they want me to even read it for, anyway, since they feel
they’re doing such a wonderful job and that it’s all so great great great
great. So I left them alone with their greatness. Actually, it’s stinko. I do
like the title, though—we’re calling it Social Disease— and the
photographs do look really good.
Sunday, March 11, 1979
Finished the Joan Crawford book by Bob Thomas. She seems like she
would have been a lot of fun, and really easy to get to know in the end. I
wish we had remembered she was around.
Brigid called and said she’s overworked. Truman’s now got a tape
recorder and he’s doing all these interviews with everybody and Brigid has
to transcribe them. I mean, he could be getting $70,000 to do big interviews
like this, and here he’s doing it for nothing for Interview, but then he keeps
the copyright, so he’ll be able to make them all into a book.
Watched All in the Family then cabbed to Judy and Sam Peabody’s to
see Nureyev (cab $2.50). Nureyev arrived and he looked terrible—really
old-looking. I guess the nightlife finally got to him. His masseur was with
him. The masseur is also sort of a bodyguard. And I didn’t know this before
I went over there, but Nureyev had told the Peabodys that if Monique Van
Vooren showed up, he would walk out. He says she used him. But he’s
terrible. When he was so cheap and wouldn’t stay in a hotel, Monique gave
him her bed, and now he says she uses him. He’s mean, he’s really mean. At
1:30 the Eberstadts wanted to leave and I dropped them off (cab $3.50).
Monday, March 12, 1979
Went to Lester Persky’s Hair premiere at the Ziegfeld. Then got into the
limo and went over to the pier building where the party was and it was the
biggest party in the world—they had trees hanging and the whole place
looked like Central Park, but without the muggers. Elizabeth Ashley was
there and she was sweet and adorable and friendly. She said she saw me at
the Knicks game about a month ago.
Oh, and the weirdest thing. Oh, this was so ridiculous. This old man
comes running over to me and kisses me on both cheeks and my lips and it
was just disgusting and it turned out to be Leonard Bernstein, and he was
carrying on, everyone was looking, saying he’s been desperate to meet me
for twenty-five years and that we had to get together and talk, and that we
desperately must see each other tomorrow. Really, everybody was staring.
And then Doc Cox came and said he wanted me to meet his new boyfriend,
so he took me away and then Leonard Bernstein found me again, and it was
more of the same, and it was such a camp. I mean, I remember in Pittsburgh
this friend of mine saying a queer conductor was in town trying to pick up
boys, and that was the first I heard of Leonard Bernstein. And he was
hugging me and kissing me more, then putting me down at the same time.
Like he’d say a big compliment and then the next sentence would be a put-
down. Things like, “I always wanted to meet you but everyone told me
you’re a creep.” Things like that. I finally got away from him.
Wednesday, March 14, 1979
The BBC was at the office doing a story on Fran Lebowitz and then on us
interviewing Jessica Lange (pastry $17, $2.77).
Jessica wants to be a serious actress. She’s thirty and she’s pretty but she
has caps on her teeth, I think. They asked me where I found Fran and I said,
“In the gutter.” And then they asked me if I’d read her book, and I said no. I
hope it came out right. What they were actually saying was that since she’s
so good, how come she writes for you. I asked Fran to help us interview
Jessica, and she said she didn’t do interviews. And then she didn’t have her
column for us, so we were upset. She actually did give funny lines, though,
this time. She told Jessica she loved King Kong, and Jessica said she hadn’t
seen it. And Jessica said to Fran, “I loved your book,” and Fran said, “I
haven’t read it.”
Picked up Jed and Paulette Goddard and we limoed to the armory for the
Cartier party that Ralph Destino was giving to celebrate the anniversary of
the Santos Dumont wristwatch that he got Bob to help get celebrities for.
Truman was there in his sailor’s cap—he looks like he’s lost a lot of weight.
It’s strange. It’s as if they took his face and chiseled off some of it. It’s not
like he looks younger. It’s just thinner. And his scars are all gone. The only
one left is the one from the fold on his nose. And Monique Van Vooren was
there, she said that Nureyev was coming. And I said are you sure, and she
said, “Don’t worry, if he’s getting a free watch he’ll be here.” And right
then he walked in. He really looks so old.
Mr. Destino spent so much money to get the airplanes into the armory—
the wristwatch was invented for a pilot—and the whole party probably cost
about $100,000, but it just didn’t work.
Robyn Geddes’s mother, Caroline Amory, was there, and Lynn Wyatt,
and Joanne Herring. And Catherine was there, she’s very fat but she looks
beautiful. Like a sexy English fatso, a beautiful body, but all filled in. Like
a jelly jar.
Paulette was wearing so much jewelry it must have been $3 million
worth of rubies, and she was saying she wants to sell off her paintings, and
she was saying how much money she had. She decided she didn’t want the
woman’s watch, that she wanted the man’s watch, and she told Mr. Destino
and he said fine. The watches they were giving were $1,300 watches, and
they gave eight of them, and I guess they cost them $600 apiece. Marion
Javits didn’t know who Mr. Destino was and she said to him, “These
watches are crap,” and he said, “I’m the president of Cartier.” And so she
was going crazy because she couldn’t get out of it—literally going crazy.
Finally I told her, “Well look, Marion, it’ll be a memorable evening for him
—he’ll never forget it.”
Bob and I took Paulette home. And Bob was gushing and sentimental
and telling Paulette he loved her, and so just to make things lighter I said,
“Gee, Bob, you never tell me you love we.” And so I go home and fall
asleep and the phone rings and it’s Bob saying that he’s never said so but
that he does love me, and I mean, what’s wrong with him? Is he flipping
out?
Thursday, March 15, 1979
Paulette and I were in the Post standing next to the airplanes. The airplanes
got lots of publicity.
I called John Fairchild, Jr. and invited him to Elephant Man, and he said
he’d go, and I said that he’d probably cancel later and he said no, if his life
depended on it he wouldn’t do that. And then I got home and sure enough
there was a long note, cancelling, saying that “a friend came unexpectedly
to town.” And I just don’t know how to handle that. What should I do?
Because I just knew he would do it. Should I tell him I never had tickets
anyway, that I just wanted to see what he’d do? Should I tell him that? Or
just say I didn’t care, or maybe I should go to the other extreme and make
him feel really really guilty because I just know he feels terrible about it. He
probably didn’t sleep all night, but I mean, he knew he wasn’t going to go
and no friend came to town, so why did he say yes in the first place?
Elephant Man is Equus with an elephant instead of a horse, but I
couldn’t stand Equus so how could I like this? But all the actors are good.
After the play we went to Mortimer’s to pick up Catherine. When we
were leaving, Sam Green insisted we come and see his new place before we
went down to Studio 54, and so we went there, and Sam’s really got a great
place. You open the door and there’s these big stairs, and I was kidding
around telling Catherine right in front of Sam that he was a big cocaine
dealer and he didn’t say anything, so now I don’t know if it’s true. It’s the
new kind of place—empty with nothing in it but a rug, and then that photo
of him with Garbo at the King Tut thing. And Sam really does get around,
he traveled all over with John and Yoko, talking to the Dalai Lama and
things. Catherine broke her shoe, she really is fat.
Then as we were leaving, across the street there was a party for China
Syndrome going in and they yelled to Sam, “Can Andy Warhol come to the
party?” So we went over, and we saw Jim Bridges and he’s really the hottest
new director now. He said that Jack wasn’t there—Jack Larson, our old
friend Jimmy Olsen from Superman—that he was back in Hollywood. Jim
is a big star director now, so he wasn’t as friendly, he was acting more
Hollywood. He’s on Easy Street now.
Oh, and Bob was all upset in the afternoon because he was expecting
Mr. Destino to call and give him a Cartier watch, but he didn’t.
Friday, March 16,1979
Cabbed down to Chembank ($4) then walked to the office. Fred told me I
have to go down to Washington on April 6 to teach crippled kids how to
paint, and I’m not looking forward to it. It’s for Phyllis Wyeth. Fred went
down to Leo’s because Leo just sold a painting of mine, so that comes right
when we have to pay more in taxes—it eased the blow for a second.
David Mahoney was giving a St. Patrick’s Day party at Halston’s. I
picked up Catherine, and we went to the Olympic Tower (cab $3). Curley
was waiting for us. He said he’d been invited, but he wasn’t, really, he just
got in using our name. The Kissingers were just leaving and I told Nancy
I’d just met her aunt and she said, “Oh yes, the crazy one.” We talked to
Governor Carey and he liked Catherine.
It was wall-to-wall celebrities. Truman was there. Steve Rubell was not
so friendly to me, he’s being cool, somehow, I think because I’m friendly
with Henry Post. Walter Cronkite said hello, he was cute, and he introduced
us to his daughter who’s an actress. And I met the kids of Mahoney who’re
good-looking now. The girl used to be heavier and dumpy, but now she’s
pretty. She was in the same green Halston as the year before.
Monday, March 19, 1979
Halston picked me up and we went over to Martha Graham’s studio on I
think 63rd, to watch her rehearse. Martha arrived and she’s so great, so
young. She has a guy who looks after her. Then we went over to Halston’s
for dinner. Martha’s going to England to do a command performance, and
to Egypt, and to Lisbon. Her Iranian performance was cancelled, naturally,
but I don’t see how she can do it at her age, it’s so hard, traveling like that.
We talked about cosmetic surgery. I remember somebody telling me once
that when Martha was down and out, a kind couple took her in and gave her
a facelift and then her career revived. Now maybe she’ll get a hand
operation, too, she said, because really her hands are just like little stumps.
I told her I saw her dance in Pittsburgh in 1948 and she said she was
from Pittsburgh, and Halston was surprised, he didn’t know that, he said
they’d never really talked. Halston gives her clothes, and somebody else
gave her money to redecorate, but instead of redecorating she bought one
expensive thing instead of doing the basics, but she said it was just because
she didn’t have time to do the basics, that she’ll get to it. Halston served
caviar and baked potatoes. And when Halston serves baked potatoes and
caviar, it’s always with like a pound of caviar. I don’t know if it’s really
caviar these days, though, because with all the trouble in Iran, where can
they be getting it? They may be just making it up.
And the Du Pont twins called me at Halston’s, they were calling all over
town for me, and I wouldn’t take the call, and then they had the nerve to
ring the doorbell and they were drunk and giggling and I went to the front
door and told them off.
Oh, and Halston’s mad at Bianca because she never arrived from
London, and it was supposed to be Mohammed’s day off and Halston had
him wait at home all day, and when he called her in London she said that
she had food poisoning, but he didn’t believe her because he’d heard her
use that excuse over and over again on other people while she was staying
at his house.
Tuesday, March 20, 1979
Fred saw Cocaine Cowboys and he thought it was just terrible, he said he
was so embarrassed for me. But then I don’t know, Fred doesn’t know
what’s good with movies.
Friday, March 23, 1979
I stayed uptown because I was going to Brady Chapin’s at 225 Central Park
West for lunch, it was a cute little building. It was a reunion for Scavullo
and Nancy White and me, because we used to work together at Harper’s
Bazaar. And John Tesh came, the 6 ‘4” newscaster on channel 2, and he’s
so handsome. He didn’t eat anything, and he brought a girlfriend. Brady
knows him from jogging in the park.
Saturday, March 24, 1979
Got up early. Thomas Ammann called and he picked me up at 10:30, he
wanted to see the new New York things with me. We went to some shops, it
was fun (kitchen supplies $50). Then went home and glued myself for
Fiorucci’s, went there at 1:30 and began signing Interviews and I was there
all afternoon. Paulette showed up and Keith Richards and Ron Wood, and it
was the first time I was seeing them in the daylight and they looked so old
and beat-up. Their girlfriends looked young and fresh.
Paulette was sweet, she said she does all her shopping there now. The
kids who were waiting on her didn’t know who she was. It’s so strange to
be famous in one category and then other people don’t know who you are.
But I explained to them that she’d been married to Charlie Chaplin and they
connected with Charlie Chaplin. I was there until 6:00 and then took some
of the kids to Reginette ($70).
Sunday, March 25, 1979
I have to go to Monique Van Vooren’s party at Studio 54. She called a few
weeks ago and invited me to her party, but I guess in an abstract way she
was telling me she wanted me to give the party, because when I asked her
when it was, she said, “Any day, at your convenience”—that was how she
was inviting me to the party, but I didn’t get it. Then she gave the same
pitch to Bob and he got the message and explained it to me.
Monday, March 26, 1979
It was a nice day but colder. I went out passing Interviews, and I stopped in
at Primavera and ran into Audrey the owner and decided she would be a
good person to go around to the new places with and to learn about new
categories from, so we ran around town and we had fun. Audrey said that a
lady brought in a Castellani and she gave her $100 and now it’s worth
$10,000. Well, that’s what you do, that’s the antiques game. If it’s an old
person selling it you give them a break and give them a little more, but it’s
like if you go to a flea market and you see something that’s really worth a
lot, and the person selling it doesn’t know—you don’t tell them. And
categories disappear. It’s like Deco—you hardly ever see a Deco piece
anymore. People just get them, and then they put them away, and they’re all
collected up, categories go (catalogues $8). Then we were in Suzie
Frankfurt’s neighborhood, so we rang her bell. Suzie looks good. She’s in
sort of a floozy look lately—her hair frizzled and pulled back on one side.
And really really big shoulders. Extreme. That’s how she looks best. And
she looks really rich.
Tuesday, March 27, 1979
Brigid called and said she was freaking out, she said she feels like a garbage
can—she was over 152—and she doesn’t know what to do, and I told her
she should go to church and pray to God.
Friday, March 30, 1979
I cabbed up to Parke Bernet where I was meeting Suzie Frankfurt and Mark
Shand, but it was just Suzie, it turned out (cab $2). Suzie wanted to go to
47th Street, so we cabbed there ($3). Suzie said all the good antique jewelry
is in London, but then we ran into a guy from the Philips Gallery in London
buying something on 47th Street, and he was bringing it back to London,
and then Suzie goes there and buys it and brings it back. He said he comes
over here all the time to buy things.
Saturday, March 31, 1979
Went to Studio 54 with Catherine and Stephen Graham. Catherine had also
invited Jamie Bland-ford, the good-looking marquis who’ll be the next
Duke of Marlborough. Jamie introduced me to Gunther Sachs’s son—it
must have been from before Brigitte Bardot, he looked in his twenties. The
place was crowded, it was like a subway. Stevie came over and told me a
couple of stars that were there, but I can’t remember who they were. One
was “the new Shaun Cassidy,” a blond kid, Leif something, he’s making
millions, they say. Garrett. Then I had John Scribner talking in one ear
about John Samuels IV, and in the other ear Cindy the Hustler from
Columbus talking about John Samuels IV. And she was jealous because
he’d dropped her for Larissa.
Studio 54 was a lot of fun. I went up in the balcony and Halston was
there with Lester, and if you say, “This is Lester Persky the producer of
Hair,” these boys just get down on their knees. They absolutely get down
on their knees. And then Halston invited me to the next night’s birthday
party for Victor. Jamie wanted to go to the basement, but Catherine and I
didn’t go with him.
Sunday, April 1, 1979
Jamie called and said everybody down in the basement at Studio 54 was in
different corners, having coke. They’re doing it there again. I was giving
Victor a Money painting for his birthday and money in the kosher pickle jar
that makes a burglar-alarm noise when you open it. When Catherine and I
got to Halston’s there were just a few people there, just sitting around—
Halston, Nancy North, Rupert and his boyfriend who lives with him. Victor
wasn’t there yet. Halston showed me the birthday cake and it had money all
over it and Halston was going to burn the money, but I said no, that
everybody should get the money with a piece of cake when you cut it, so
Halston made flowers out of the bills for on top of the cake, he really is
clever. Then Victor arrived in the green Halston fur coat that Interview
photographed Sophia Loren in. He brought his Chinese friend from San
Francisco, Benjamin, the one who was in drag the other night at Xenon and
he really looked like a pretty girl.
Arman and Corice were there and they gave Victor one of those
language computers that have different tapes and you push good morning
and it shows you bonjour. Victor wasn’t too impressed with any of the
presents, and instead of cutting the cake nice with each piece having money,
he grabbed up all the bills and put them into his shopping bag. He was
disgusting. Catherine and Dr. Giller were making out.
Everybody hands me Quaaludes and I always accept them now because
they’re so expensive and I can sell them.
Thursday, April 5, 1979
Picked up Catherine and we went over to Regine’s. Paloma Picasso was
there with her husband and her boyfriend. Or his boyfriend. Or their
boyfriend, I don’t know how that one works. Neil and Leba Sedaka and
their two little boys walked in and Paloma fell madly in love with Neil. She
said when she was ten, in Argentina, that they used to sing “Sweet Sixteen”
in Portuguese and Spanish, and then she sang it for Neil that way and he
loved it, he was so impressed with her.
And Regine was cute, she now has a “back room.” Everybody wants one
just like Studio 54 has—Xenon copied it, too—but as usual, Regine has it
all wrong. Hers is too big and too plush and too far away from everything.
Monday, April 9, 1979
Fereydoun Hoveyda’s brother, the prime minister under the Shah, was
hanged in Iran over the weekend.
Everyone’s in town for Cy Twombly’s opening. And I’m surprised that I
wasn’t invited to the dinner that Earl and Camilla McGrath gave for him.
Glued myself to go to the Whitney for the Cy Twombly dinner. David
Whitney had called and said he and Philip Johnson wanted to pick me up,
but I said I was running late and David said they always went on time.
Cabbed there in the rain ($2). The show was great. Marilyn and Ivan Karp
were there and Marilyn told me that the psychic she’d recommended to
Truman who Brigid went to who was in Interview called Marilyn up and
asked what about this Fred Hughes who wanted to see him and was he
“Fred Hughes the actor.” She told him that she didn’t know about any Fred
Hughes the actor—that this Fred Hughes worked for Andy Warhol. I guess
that’s how they find out all about the person in advance so that when the
person gets there for the reading they know all about him already.
Lily Auchincloss said she’d sent Mr. Hoveyda flowers because of what
happened to his brother, and she asked me if I did anything, and I said no,
because Bob was away and I didn’t know what to do.
Tuesday, April 10, 1979
Christophe de Menil invited me to a blues concert at Carnegie Hall (cab
$4). I invited Curley and he met me there. The place was jammed. Allen
Ginsberg gave me a big kiss, he was with Peter Orlovsky. We had good
seats. Everybody loved the show. Blues could really be big now. The black
blues guys are such gorgeous dressers—hats and beautiful clothes and gold
teeth that you can really see, and jewelry, and they just let people do things
for them. They must be really big stars.
Curley was obnoxious—he called some boy to come and meet him, so I
got mad and I’m never going to take him anywhere again. He’s just a rich
freeloader.
Wednesday, April 11, 1979
Time magazine called and said they accepted my design idea for their cover
of the three Fondas. It has to be done by 4:00 Thursday. They were going
through their old covers and saw that I’d done one of Jane. I sent Rupert out
to get stats and he didn’t come back with the stuff until 7:30 so I yelled at
him. Bob got back from California in the afternoon. He said he’d gotten the
John Savage interview, finally, so that’s really great. He said he’s never
given an interview before, so now maybe we’ll be able to get the heavier
types who say Interview’s too frivolous.
At Ahmet and Mica Ertegun’s party I played backgammon with Ahmet
and lost four paintings to him, we’ll have to see which ones.
Thursday, April 12, 1979
The Du Pont twins were at 860—Richard and Robert—and Brigid and I
were trying to figure out how they got there, and Brigid finally found out
that Fred had invited them! And Brigid took Richard home with her and
gave him $25 to clean the stove, and then she spent all night eavesdropping
while he made plans on the phone to go to Studio 54, arranging to have his
brother iron his light green pants—Robert irons for Richard, because that’s
the only thing he does really well. He’s the twin who lived with Rupert and
left Rupert for Fred.
And Truman came down to the office. He loved the new title for our
photo book, Over-Exposed. Bob got that title out in California when he
talked to Irving Mansfield. I like the title Social Disease better, though,
because if we’re not going to be commercial anyway, we might as well
always be something that people will avoid.
Truman’s facelift is the first one I’ve ever seen that really did work. His
chins are totally gone, and they were just hanging there for years. The only
thing that’s wrong is that the scar over his nose is still two inches thick. I
think that one was a mistake. Since the operation he wears a piece of plastic
over it, and he could have just (laughs) done that in the first place. Oh, and
Truman asked for the originals of his articles back, and we were trying to
keep them. I’ll try to give him a Xerox.
Cabbed back to the office ($3) and everyone was waiting for me. Lloyd
called, the Mafia-type kid who worked at 54, and he wanted to have dinner
with Catherine and me. He said to meet him at a place called York’s on 38th
and Second (cab $4).
York’s was a funny little place. Then we dropped Catherine and cabbed
to Regine’s ($3). I think he had a Rolls Royce parked near York’s but I
don’t think he wanted us to see it. He said he wanted to meet Regine but
when we got to Regine’s he knew everybody. He knows everybody
everyplace, and it’s so strange, he’s so young—eighteen—but he acts like
forty. I had half a drink and he had three more. Then he told me he was bi.
And that got me scared because I always thought he was after Catherine,
but then I didn’t know. He told me about his family. He said his father
works for Roy Cohn, but he sounded more like a money collector to me. He
said his “pop” gets up at 6:00 and goes to the post office every morning to
pick up the money that’s come in from the debts he makes people pay up
on. He has a seven-year-old sister that will be a beauty, he says—he buys
her presents.
Regine’s husband came by and I introduced them. Then he didn’t charge
us. And then Lloyd still wanted to drink some more so he said why don’t we
go to the Playboy Club, so that sounded like fun. He likes Bunnies. He has
a philosophy about women—he only likes them if they’re very beautiful.
He’s Jewish and I asked him why he wasn’t home for Passover and he said
they aren’t religious. At the bar three guys were staring at me, but it turned
out they worked at “21.” It was strange. Lloyd had two more drinks. He
said that his mother is beautiful—she’s only thirty-eight—and that she
never wears a dress twice, or shoes, either. He wants to take us to a really
great restaurant in Westchester. He said, “It’s better than Elaine’s.” Isn’t that
funny? Of all the places to pick. “Better than Elaine’s,” he said. “If you
don’t think it’s as good as Elaine’s I’ll take you to dinner for a year, but you
have to be honest.”
Oh, and Steve Rubell got taken to jail. It hasn’t been in the news yet. It
was for fighting with some photographers. Lloyd said the only time Steve
ever hurt him was when Steve was on Quaaludes and Lloyd said, “Gee,
Stevie, I’m glad you like my mom and pop,” and Steve said, “I don’t.
They’re nothing. They’re nobodies—it’s you I like.” He said that really hurt
him. This was when he was driving Steve home once.
Friday, April 13, 1979
I was reading the Margaret Trudeau book. She writes like Viva. If Viva had
met interesting people in her life, she would have written a book like this.
Went to the Copa for the Mork show. Robin Williams. He was terrific.
Jed’s sister, Susan, was our waitress (tip $10). Then Mork’s wife invited us
to the Sherry, so we went over there and Lucie Arnaz was there, too, and
everybody was sitting around a big table of bagels. Mork has a hairy chest
and arms but pretty blue eyes.
Monday, April 16, 1979
Did I say that the other night Nureyev was in Elaine’s? I never know what
you’re supposed to do there when you see somebody. Be very cool so you
don’t bother them? Or should you throw your arms around them because I
mean it is great when Diana Ross does it.
I didn’t go to Steve Rubell’s getting-out-of-jail party. In the paper it said
that while he was in his jail cell he wrote his diary on Studio 54 cards that
he had in his pocket. Isn’t that great? He said the cell was disgusting and
that the first thing he’ll fight for is jail reform.
Tuesday, April 17, 1979
Called Mork’s hotel. They said to come right over. Cabbed to the Sherry
($2.50). We thought they’d have a limousine because there were twelve of
them but then we had to get three cabs down to the Village. They wanted to
pay for the cab, but I did ($6). We met on Christopher and Bleecker and
then went to a used-clothes store and they had a good time. Mork can tell in
a second what will fit him. He picked out three suits and he put them on and
they fit perfectly. His wife’s name is Valerie and she’s really nice. She said
she’d been down to Bleecker Street already that morning and gotten French
provincial furniture that morning to send back to L.A.
We went though the back streets, and it’s funny—when kids see Robin
they just say, “Hi, Mork” without getting excited, it’s like seeing somebody
they know. It’s the grownups who get excited. We walked over to Lady
Astor’s. Then we went to meet Michael Sklar, who I haven’t seen in years
who was in our movies Trash and L’Amour. He looks thin in the face. He’s
a friend of theirs.
Robin’s going to do the Popeye movie. Sue Mengers just became his
agent. Valerie said that when she saw Robin was going to get famous and
they’d been living together for two years, she told him she didn’t want to go
through life and the newspapers as Robin Williams and Guest, so she made
him marry her. They’re nice and they’re (laughs) “real.” You know? So they
don’t have limousines. But a limousine would have been so much easier.
Did I tell the Diary about Henry Post’s bad accident? He was driving his
new car out to Southampton and he woke up in the hospital. He doesn’t
remember a thing. He hit two poles. And then I slipped and said something
dumb—which I shouldn’t have because when you’re on pills and painkillers
and things you get paranoid—I said, “Maybe because of the exposés you
write, maybe somebody sabotaged you.”
Wednesday, April 18, 1979
It was a sunny day, walked over to Lexington, passed out Interviews, and
then went over to the Russian Tea Room to meet Joan Hyler, my agent
who’s going to get me movie parts. She has John Savage and Meryl Streep
for clients.
John Fairchild, Jr. called and invited me to see Manhattan on his father’s
tickets, but I looked in the book and saw I had a dinner at Alice Mason’s.
She’s the real estate person in New York who got Carter elected president.
Dropped Rupert (cab $4). Went to 150 East 72nd Street.
And I wanted to see her apartment, because after all, she’s the big
realtor, and when I saw it you couldn’t believe it, it’s just nothing, on a sixth
floor with (laughs) paint peeling. Nothing special at all.
But it was a heavy-duty party. It was all big, tall, beautiful intellectual
girls and old, rich bachelors. A room full of heavies. Bess Myerson, John
and Mary Lindsay, John Kluge. Jaquine Lachman who was so thrilled that
Mr. Lachman died, but now Rita, an ex-Mrs. Lachman, is giving her
problems.
The daughter of Alice Mason brought me into her mother’s bedroom
where my Carter portrait was and other photos of her with Carter. They had
funny art around the house. At around 12:15 I slipped out.
Thursday, April 19, 1979
Had to go to the memorial service for Ambassador Hoveyda’s brother who
was executed in Iran. Cabbed to Riverside Drive ($2.50). Everybody was
there. We took our shoes off. There was a rug in the middle of the floor and
no one wanted to step on it because it was like stepping on the body
because there wasn’t a body there. There was Iranian music. It was like the
best cocktail party but with no drinks.
Steve Rubell’s suing Ron Galella, I read in the papers—for starting a
fight at Studio 54, he says. And I’m invited to Ron Galella’s wedding on
Saturday. I think I’ll go.
Friday, April 20, 1979
Talked on the phone to Henry Post. He’s getting better. They restructured
his nose.
Tuesday, April 24, 1979
The papers were full of Margaret Trudeau walking off the Today Show—she
really knows how to get the publicity—and then showing up at Studio 54.
Cabbed downtown ($3.50). Passed out Interviews. Walked over to the
office where I was meeting David Whitney and David White and Fred at
12:00 to go through all the portraits I’ve ever done for the show at the
Whitney.
Sunday, April 29, 1979
Cab to Ruth Warrick’s on Park Avenue. I was a little late. Lucie Arnaz had
already left. I was standing there and this really good-looking guy came
over and then I realized it was William Weslow who used to be with the
Ballet Theater twenty or thirty years ago. I was introduced to him a few
times and he always ignored me, he’d never talk to me because I was
nobody then. He’s a masseur now, Henry Geldzahler goes to him. He was
fired from Balanchine in about 1970. He said that Balanchine said, “Listen
darling, you’re too old, we’ve seen you too much around, and you’re
through, darling. I hope you’re not going to commit suicide, darling, are
you?” And he said he told him not for somebody like him—he wouldn’t
give him that much pleasure. Balanchine doesn’t like boys, he only likes tall
girls.
So now he’s a masseur. Dick Cavett uses him, too—he said Dick’s sent
him about forty people. He made me feel his legs and (laughs) I giggled.
It was such a weird party. When you go to places where people are sort
of nobodies and you have to think of what to say to them, it’s so hard. I met
Kay Gardella, that’s who I met. The newspaper television critic. And she’s
really fat. She’s the fattest person I’ve met in years—most people aren’t fat
anymore, they’re chubby. Nobody’s really fat anymore.
Monday, May 7, 1979
Went up to Hoveyda’s exhibit at the Bodley Gallery. Hoveyda had a letter in
the Times yesterday about his brother, a letter to the new regime that said
his brother didn’t run away from the country like all the other ministers
because he believed in Iran, and Hoveyda called it murder, he said that the
new prime minister could look forward to getting murdered, too. It was a
good letter (cab $4.50).
Bob had a big lunch where he got lots of Lee Radziwill gossip.
Everybody thinks she was just too drunk to make it to her own wedding. In
San Francisco. She left the groom waiting at the altar. But I think she’s
probably just depressed because she got so skinny that her chemical balance
changed and she doesn’t know what she wants.
Wednesday, May 9, 1979
The Du Pont twins came in and Brigid told them that Freddy von Mierers
had called and put out the word that he was going to send the police after
them if they didn’t return his two sweaters. They turned bright red, and she
told them not to come around anymore since they steal. Dropped Rupert
(cab $4).
Thursday, May 10, 1979
It was another really hot day in the nineties. Paul Morrissey’s out in
California. He wants to do Trash II where Holly’s an entertainer and Joe’s
living in the Bronx, still shooting up, and their son is selling drugs in
school. Nelson Lyon’s in town, he said he gave Paul the idea.
Saturday, May 12, 1979
Got up. Nelson called and wanted to know why I’d left Studio 54 so quick
the night before—he said did I go to a “better party.” Can you believe it?
(laughs) The same old paranoid Nelson.
Halston and Steve Rubell aren’t getting along so well anymore—there
was a picture of Steve in the front row at Calvin Klein’s fashion show.
Sunday, May 13, 1979
Went to church in the afternoon. I hadn’t gotten any calls from John
Fairchild, Jr. for five or six days so I tried calling him. Curley keeps calling,
telling about his escapades at Studio 54.
Nelson called from Tarrytown where he’s working on the trailer for
Apocalypse Now. And Bobby De Niro says he might be able to get money
for Trash II. Nelson’s writing it with Paul.
Oh, and I’ve been running into Crazy Matty on the street a lot again. I
told him to come by the office. I want to tape him and have that be my
abstract movie. He said he’s staying at the Grand Union Hotel on East 32nd
Street.
Saturday, June 2, 1979
Truman called and he was so mad at Lee Radziwill for giving the
deposition against him in the Gore Vidal lawsuit. It was so scary. He said
she’d be “shitting razor blades” after he goes on The Stanley Siegel Show on
Tuesday to “really let her have it.” And he kept saying, “Well, don’t you
agree? Don’t you agree? What’s the matter, you’re not saying anything.” It
was really horrible. He said, “She’s going to wake up and hate herself.
Don’t you agree? Don’t you agree?” And I said, “Well, Truman, she’s so
weak now, she might commit suicide.” And he said, “Too bad.” He said, “If
I told you all the things she’s said about you….” I said I didn’t care, that I
never thought of her as a friend, that I’ve always known what kind of a
person she is, that she was just somebody who was renting our house in
Montauk, so whatever she said, it didn’t bother me, I knew all about it
already. It was scary how vicious he could get over someone he was best
friends with. When Truman turns, he really turns.
And Halston’s going to rent Montauk, we think. Vincent was out there
this weekend showing the place to him. Victor was with him and I got
scared about that, visualizing Victor painting red footprints all over the
main house.
Sunday, June 3, 1979
Nelson called and told me the plot for Trash II: Joe’s working in a pizzeria,
and Holly wants them to move from the Lower East Side to a better place—
(laughs) Lodi, New Jersey, the town with the chemical spills—but they
don’t have the money until one of the kids gets hit by a cab and they sue the
cab company and they’re able to buy a house.
Oh, and everybody seems to like the Popism manuscript. Bob and Fred
and Rupert. They were reading it in Paris.
Tuesday, June 5, 1979
Watched The Stanley Siegel Show in the morning. Truman went into a
“Southern Fag” character and began telling all the embarrassing things that
Lee had told him over the years about people—that Peter Tufo looked like a
ferret and was publicity-crazy riding on her coattails, and that Newton Cope
who she’s engaged to marry, still—even after calling off the wedding a few
weeks ago—was “no great catch,” except for maybe he would be, in a
“provincial town.” And he told how she tried to seduce William F. Buckley,
Jr. by asking him for spiritual advice and then when he didn’t respond she
accused him of being queer. If Lee was drinking before this feud with
Truman, can you imagine now? Oh, Truman’s making such a fool of
himself. He should at least be drunk.
Liz Smith called Interview to say that she was going to do an item on the
channel 4 news show at 5:45 about our interview with the Mondale kid
because of the part where he said that in the vice-president’s house where
his parents live now, when Nelson Rockefeller used to live there, he had a
trap door put in that connected his bedroom with the guest bedroom.
Halston said he was all for Truman, that Lee deserved what she got.
Then we were talking about Steve Rubell and Halston said that
confidentially he thought Steve was going up the river. Then Steve arrived
and said his lawyers told him he could get off if he gave evidence to the
government about the Washington people that’ve come to Studio 54 and
taken drugs and things. Then he went to pick up Diana Ross to take her to
Studio 54.
Wednesday, June 6, 1979
Truman called and told me that all the Washington papers and the California
papers had his thing on the Siegel Show on the front page. But the New
York papers haven’t really played it up.
Daniela Morera gave me a black linen Giorgio Armani jacket and it’s too
small, but it’s beautiful, no lining, the way the Italians are making them
now.
I had to autograph a copy of the Philosophy book and I was rereading it
and I wonder why it didn’t make it big—it’s got a lot of good lines in it.
Thursday, June 7, 1979
Truman called. He said he got a telegram from a fan congratulating him on
The Stanley Siegel Show saying that it was the best thing on TV since Ruby
shot Oswald. Steve Rubell said that his flower guy was at Lee’s to deliver
and she wouldn’t answer the door.
At home I put on my new black linen Giorgio Armani jacket. It’s the
stiff fine linen like what used to be under crinolines.
Anyway, the big party Studio 54 gave for Interview last night got ruined
for me because Jed had trouble at the door with Mark, the doorman. And I
mean, it’s confusing, because Steve said he let Jed in, but Jed says that
Steve saw him and wouldn’t let him in.
Sunday, June 10, 1979
Worked at home. Went to church. And I’m just remembering, John
Fairchild, Jr. told me that William Pitt went to an EST conference in New
Hampshire and flipped out and now he thinks he’s God. He’d already gone
through EST and this was like a refresher course, and it was supposed to
last for eight days but he flipped out in one. Pepe Balderago was with him
there and confirmed that he absolutely flipped out and “realized he was
God” and left. So when I went downstairs at New York/New York and I saw
him, I said, “Hi, God,” and he called me a genius for knowing. And it’s true,
he actually does think he’s God. So I walked with Pepe Balderago and God
over to Studio 54. I talked with God as we walked. When we got to Studio
54 I saw John and told him that God was on the dance floor, and he ran
away.
Monday, June 11, 1979
As I was talking on the phone to Brigid, they said on TV that they might
come on with a news bulletin, but then they didn’t, and then later on the
regular news they said that John Wayne died.
Tuesday, June 12, 1979
Cabbed down to Chembank ($3.75), walked around Union Square then
went to the office. Oscar de la Renta and his friend Jack Alexander, who
does the advertising, were there. It was a business lunch to talk him into
advertising in Interview. Bob was telling Oscar that young kids don’t know
about him. Oscar reminded him that Jerry Hall was young and she wore his
clothes. And Barbara Allen stopped by and she came and sat down and she
made the lunch more interesting. She’s going to Maria Niarchos’s wedding,
and she talked Bob into going over for it, too.
A lady Ivan Karp sent over came to see if she wanted to have her mug
done. If you closed your eyes you’d think it was Lee Radziwill talking, so I
guess she went to the same school as Lee and Jackie. She said her original
idea was to have Scavullo do a photograph, and since that was going to cost
$5,000, she thought why not go all the way and see about a Warhol portrait.
I doubt if she’ll ever get it done. I think she just wanted something to do for
the afternoon. Then Oscar left and Brigid and I rushed out and went to
Mays to get some supplies for the office ($11.55, $22.68). It was such a
beautiful day. Then rushed back to meet Famous Amos the cookie man.
He’s good-looking, sort of like that black record guy who managed Nico at
first—Tom Wilson. But I do think he has chops. His teeth looked too
perfect. He doesn’t look good-looking on the package, though, because the
picture makes him look like a pickaninny. He brought his white girlfriend
Christina—they live in Hawaii. And he brought his son Gregory, about
sixteen or seventeen. While we were talking Amos ate some cookies, but
I’m sure he must be so sick of them. I asked why the cookies inside don’t
look like the ones on the package and he said because it took too long to
bake to make them look like that.
Ran into Pepe Balderago who said he just doesn’t know what to do with
Bill Pitt, that he’s still flipping out thinking he’s God. And so Pepe called
Bill’s father and said, “Look, you’re the family, you have to put him in the
hospital.” I told Pepe to take him to a steambath—in case it was LSD in his
system, to sweat it out—and then he said he’d tried that but Bill wouldn’t
go in when they got there.
Wednesday, June 13, 1979
Bill Pitt called and he thinks I’m Walt Disney. I told him he should get
some rest, really go to bed and stay there for a while. Curley called up and
invited me to his birthday party. I called Henry Geldzahler to invite him
because he said he wanted to go. I couldn’t get Curley back because his
father’d given him a box to answer calls.
Vincent called Doug Christmas and he’s so awful. They swear up and
down that the check was sent and give you the bank number and everything
and when you call back they’re “out to lunch.” The girls at his gallery there
must feel horrible having to say things like that. If he’d just say, “I can’t pay
you,” you’d know where you stood.
And Philip Niarchos is still going with Manuela Papatakis who I never
liked at first, but she’s really sweet and classy—one of those short girls who
make themselves look tall. You know, they wear those high shoes and I just
don’t understand how they walk in them, you’re always on your toes. I’ve
put some on and that’s how I don’t understand it.
Bob Weiner called and accused us of having an anti-Semitic newspaper
because of some line in Truman’s interview about stuffing all Jews and
putting them in the Museum of Natural History. He said he’d read it to five
people and they all agreed.
Thursday, June 14, 1979
Henry Post called from out in Long Island where he’s still recovering from
his car crash. He said that his bones were all set and he’d gone back on
crutches but then when the doctor was examining him he suddenly flipped
him over and by mistake rebroke every bone that’d been set. He’s in terrible
pain.
And Pepe Balderago put Bill Pitt into St. Vincent’s Hospital, he’s really
out-there.
John Fairchild, Jr. called and invited me to go roller skating Friday
night.
Cabbed to Pearl’s for Curley’s birthday ($2).
We had a round table with ten boys at it so I had to tell Pearl it was a
stag office dinner. Everybody was blond except for Henry Geldzahler and
me who were grey. Henry was being very funny, showing his
commissioner’s badge, and it was one one-liner after another. He’s so
funny, so bright. I took pictures. Then we went over to Studio 54 and my
birthday present to Curley was getting them all in.
Friday, June 15, 1979
Some kid I met asked me if I could get him and his friend into Xenon that
night and I said oh sure, that it was so easy. So when I got to the office I
called Xenon. I told the girl who answered who I was and she said, “You
don’t sound like Andy Warhol.” I said, “Well, it is.” She said, “How do I
know it’s you?” And this went on and it turns out she was just setting me
up, I guess, because she said, “I’ll call you back to see if it’s you.” So the
phone rang and I said, “Hello, this is really embarrassing, I mean …” And
she said, “Well, we had eighteen Angela Lansburys call this week, so …”
And I said, “Well, so what, I mean the place isn’t that busy, and here I’m
telling you about two cute kids who want to come and pay! And one even
wants to be a member, so …” And then she said, “Just a minute, I’ll have to
call you back.” So then in a few minutes she called back and said, “We
decided over here that we don’t want to ever see you again at Xenon.” I
said, “Whaaat?” She said, “We’re all upset about what you did the other
week.” Meaning the party Interview gave at Studio 54 on the same night as
the Xenon anniversary, which we didn’t even know about until afterwards. I
mean, I don’t know if the girl’s crazy and she was just embarrassed because
she didn’t believe who it was at first and had to prove something, or if she
asked Howard Stein and he said that, because if Peppo Vanini were in the
office I don’t think he would be that mean, and besides, I think Peppo’s
over at Maria Niarchos’s wedding. But I mean, they’re turning away $30. It
was such a shock, and then I realized that I should never call places myself.
But then it could have been worse, she could have said, “Fine, send your
friends over,” and then not let them in.
So I (laughs) called the kid up and said, “You won’t believe this, but I
can’t get you in—they told me they never wanted to see me there again,
either. I’m sorry.” And he was embarrassed. I guess somebody else would
have made up some story, to save face, but I just told him.
Went to 55th and Broadway with John Fairchild, Jr. and Belle McIntyre.
It’s this brand-new roller skating place run by Negroes that nobody knows
about yet, and it was great. They let us in free and gave us skates, which
they don’t usually do. It was great to skate, so much fun. I’m going to buy
skates today.
Then we went to the Stage Delicatessen and had good Jewish Celebrity
sandwiches. The “Diana Ross” was the worst, though—liver with jelly and
peanut butter. Then we stood on the corner and John went to 54 with Curley
and I dropped Belle (cab $4).
Saturday, June 16, 1979
Got up and called Curley, he was too tired to go out to Manhasset with us to
the Brentano’s bookstore where we were taking Blondie to autograph
Interviews.
Barbara Colacello picked me up and then we picked up Rupert at the
Pierre because it was near a subway stop. Then went over to pick up
Blondie. She lives in the great building on 58th and Seventh. Blondie—
Debbie—was sweet, her hair was fixed up, and you’d never believe she’s in
her thirties—no wrinkles and so pretty. She said her grandmother lived to
be ninety-five and all her family looks young. She spends all her money on
makeup. She must not have been pretty all these years, though, or I would
have noticed her. She must have tried to look bad or something. But I guess
some people look better, actually, when they get a little older. I didn’t know
what to call her. I guess I call her Debbie. But when I introduce her, I call
her Blondie. But Blondie is the name of the whole group, so … She was
really great on the ride out, she didn’t complain about anything and she
didn’t want anything.
So we got to Brentano’s and the thing was a big dud. The store didn’t
advertise that we would be there until that same day’s papers, which didn’t
come out until one, and so even if people did read it they wouldn’t rush
down, probably. But the kids who came all came just to see Blondie, they
didn’t care about me, they were a whole new young crowd. What they did
was go next door and get copies of her record and had her autograph that.
Then Debbie had to get back to rehearse for her new album. We got back
around 5:00. After we dropped her, Rupert and I went for a late lunch.
We had aquavit and caviar ($70). We were getting drunk talking
business, and we didn’t pay attention when a guy next to us was down on
the floor screaming, and finally he said, “Oh, can I have your autograph?”
and it turned out to be John Lennon! And I just wished we’d noticed him
before—he was with Yoko and her mother and it would have been so much
fun. John’s very skinny now. I don’t know what kind of diet he’s on, maybe
rice. They live at the Dakota. Then I went home, and I was drunk so a
movie was out. I really can’t drink in the afternoon.
Thursday, July 19, 1979—Paris
Such a pretty day, walked around, stopped at Fauchon ($20). Went past the
Beaubourg. Bought some magazines and Vogues ($8). Went by the Flore but
it was closed. Made dinner plans to meet Anthony Russell and Florence
Grinda at Castel’s. He’s still working on his rock and roll. Cabbed to
Castel’s ($3).
There were Florence and Anthony and Florence’s brother and a big
beautiful model named Margo. Mick and Jerry arrived. Mick has a beard.
Jerry’s wearing some pearls that he gave her. And he’s making a record.
They were talking about Anita Pallenberg’s seventeen-year-old boyfriend
killing himself on the bed. Jerry was in between going back and forth to
Houston, working in the John Travolta movie, Urban Cowboy. She was
thrilled about that, said John was just adorable. We all chipped in for dinner.
Fred walked me home. Sat up reading, called Curley to find out what was
happening in New York—he was off to Bermuda because his family’s
caretaker there died.
Friday, July 20, 1979—Paris—London
Up very early. Fred arrived at 8:30 A.M. and pretended that he’d been in
bed and just gotten up. Later, he said he’d been with Jerry Hall and I don’t
know if he was kidding. He was so tired he fell asleep, I had to get him up
at 10:30 because we had to pack and go to London. We had to buy some
tickets ($600) at Lufthansa (tips $20, cab to airport $25). Took British
Airlines, it was okay, a really big plane, jam-packed, one of those DC-10s, I
think. Cabbed from airport to the Savoy ($30). At the airport while waiting
for bags, we heard the people talking about Martha Graham coming in, that
she’s old, and they should send a cart for her. We waited for her a little
while but she never arrived.
Checked in at the Savoy and Martha arrived with Ron Protas, they were
coming in from Denmark. Ron is Martha’s right-hand lady. So Martha and I
stood there talking, it was fun, she was very tired. Learned Dr. Giller had
checked in, tried to get him, but he was out. Liza and Halston hadn’t arrived
yet, they were coming in on the Concorde (tip to porter $5, room service
$5). Read the Martha Mitchell book, slept an hour.
The rooms at the Savoy were small and dinky, on the courtyard, but not
really a courtyard. Small. So expensive. Then Nick Scott, the good-looking
rich English kid who was the butler of Bianca during the period when he
thought he’d lost all his money, invited us to have dinner with him and his
wife at the Savoy Grill—he’s in the bucks again. Sabrina Guinness was at
dinner, and she’s been going out with Prince Charles a lot, and we think she
fucked him. Fred met Halston in the lobby so he told him I would call him
as soon as I could.
We had a really good dinner, the Grill was great, and Sabrina and I went
up to Halston’s room and I started taping Liza for her Interview interview.
Steve Rubell was there with Randy and they had a bedroom and a sitting
room, and Halston had an adjoining bedroom with Victor Hugo, and the
next room was Dr. Giller. He had the prettiest room—it was purple and
white overlooking the river, and it was fun to see everybody in a new place.
Steve wanted to go discoing, he was carrying his portable radio around,
turning it up and down. Victor was changing his clothes, putting on
different outfits. Bianca was in another room with Peter Sparling, the
dancer with Martha Graham.
Saturday, July 21, 1979—London
Got up early and checked in with the Halston crowd. Halston had a car and
he decided to take us out sightseeing. Went to a couple of shirt stores with
him. Then we wandered around, bought some film and tapes ($60). Then
came back to the hotel and Fred wanted to go to the King’s Road and I
wanted to take Victor, but Halston didn’t want to go with Fred.
We all went to Mr. Chow’s for dinner. It was terrible food. Then we
decided to do the discos. Halston was the most fun person on the trip. He
would call up every place and say, “Hello, this is Steve Rubell, the owner of
Studio 54. Can I get in free?” He was just camping the whole time—the
tour guide. Bianca had to wear all her Halstons while he was in London,
and she was unhappy because Mick had called her and had a fight about
Jade. He said he can have more children and she can’t, and she got insulted
and said she could. They do use Jade as a prop, and they make each other
really unhappy. He wanted Jade to come over for his birthday, but Bianca
didn’t want to let her, she said it was bad publicity with the Pallenberg
boyfriend’s suicide.
Then we went to Tramps, stayed about half an hour, it was fun. Went to
the Embassy. And at all the discos Steve takes on the role of being the host.
The first thing he asks is: “Would you like to have a vodka?” They wanted
to go to more places but it was about 4:30 so we decided to get home.
Sunday, July 22, 1979—London
The night before I’d talked to Catherine Guinness on the phone and she
invited us out to her mother and stepfather’s place in Essex—Kelvedon, a
huge estate. Catherine really is on Easy Street. It was so beautiful. Drue
Heinz and her husband were there. And Guy Nevill’s parents. About thirty-
five people for lunch. Then Halston, Steve, Victor, and Randy. Catherine’s
stepfather, Paul Channon, he’s a minister in Mrs. Thatcher’s government.
He’s a Guinness, too, but an even richer Guinness than Catherine’s father. I
sat next to Catherine’s mother, Ingrid, and Halston sat on her other side, and
Victor sat nearby. Really fun, lots of wine, got really drunk. Halston had to
get back to London to Martha’s rehearsals. Victor went back, too. Catherine
gave me a tour. Beautiful. Steve played tennis and he plays really good.
After you see how rich Catherine is, it seems so silly that she should
ever have had a dump in New York and worked at a regular job. It was
wonderful, they showed us a good time, people were all so friendly. Lost
my contact lens and Catherine helped me find it. It was lying on the sink, I
was putting it in and it fell.
Monday, July 23, 1979—London
Went to some punk stores with Victor and Catherine, one was called
Seditionaries. We got shirts that were made out of Nazi symbols and that
you could tie yourself together with, And a T-shirt of two cocks pissing on
Marilyn Monroe’s photograph, saying the word “Piss.” Catherine knew a
little Italian restaurant where her family goes on Sunday. Nice Italian lunch
($100), and after that we got some flowers for Catherine’s mother ($20) and
Catherine took us to see her stepfather’s mansion on Cheyne Walk. Whistler
lived there once.
Victor and I went back to the hotel (cab $7). It was Martha Graham’s
opening at Covent Garden. We all got ready and met in Halston’s room—
John Bowes-Lyon, Dr. Giller, me, Randy, Steve, Victor—Fred went off with
his date, Sabrina Guinness. Liza went on before us. We all had front-row-
balcony seats.
They did three numbers and then Liza came on with “The Owl and the
Pussycat.” Then Martha gave a long speech, about half an hour. They were
all wearing beautiful Halstons. Lynn Wyatt was next to Fred, then moved up
next to John Bowes-Lyon.
Then backstage, hello to Liza and Martha, and then a little cocktail party
in the bar part of Covent Garden. Covent Garden was very beautiful, it
looked like the old Met. Then drinks, and then we all walked to the Savoy
—Halston was giving a private party. We were upstairs and we didn’t know
the party was upstairs and downstairs. The downstairs party had Princess
Margaret and Halston, Liza, and everybody, and when we finally realized
we were missing it, we went downstairs. Halston was nervous but his party
was terrific, had the best time.
Victor wanted me to meet Princess Margaret, and I didn’t but I got two
pictures. Victor got two photos of Princess Margaret and Roddy Llewellyn.
They didn’t want to be seen together and they wanted to take his film away,
but then Fred said not to, that Victor was with Halston.
Left the party about 4:00, went to Liza’s room. She was wearing a really
beautiful see-through fabric dress with her hair brushed back like her
mother used to wear it—that’s the way she wears it in “The Owl and the
Pussycat.” It was a wig but I couldn’t tell.
Then Halston and I left Liza’s room and we began taking everybody’s
shoes from in front of their doors and moving them to other places. The
funniest thing I ever did. Then to bed and read a little bit more of the
Martha Mitchell book.
Wednesday, July 25, 1979—London
Halston called and said he wanted to go to an awful lady’s shop to see the
jewelry. He’s very grand, I was sure he was going to buy $50,000 worth of
the jewelry but he was just playing. Victor was putting the jewelry in his
mouth and in his ass and I was photographing it. He lay down on the floor
and when he saw an electric surveillance eye looking down at him, he asked
what “that ruby up in the sky” was. Halston asked for a discount and when
they only offered him 5 percent he was shocked. They probably had the
place bugged and listened to everything we said when they were out of the
room.
Thursday, July 26, 1979—London—Paris
Got up early—had to pack, had to get everyone together. Halston was the
leader and Steve just didn’t know who to tip, he was just bad at it, being so
ungenerous—he really is a cheapo. He knows exactly how much things are
worth, he just doesn’t want to give it—he wants to keep it, I think. I just
can’t understand that. After Halston paid his bill he screamed, telling the
guy how dirty and unbeautiful and how did they really think a hotel could
go on like this with service so bad. I asked him how could he do that and he
said, “You’ve got to do that, you’ve got to always keep them on their toes
and pretend you’re rich, really really rich.” He kept screaming at the place,
and nobody wanted to give any tips. We snuck out because we’re never
going to stay there again, a dump. I mean, it was $2,600 for two people in
two dumb rooms without even ordering up anything.
We got to the airport in time, the Savoy had a nice man waiting there to
check you in. I gave him $15.
Got on the plane, very easy. Then we arrived in Paris, forty minutes
away. Victor forgot to get his visa, so he was stuck at customs. We waited
for him. Steve said, “Isn’t that Jerry Hall?” She was just coming in from
Houston from the John Travolta movie. It’s Mick’s birthday in a few days
and she was going to take him to some chic restaurant. Finally Victor got
out of customs. Limo waiting there for us (baggage $5). Hotel Plaza-
Athénée. Weather beautiful. Very beautiful best suite. The only thing
Halston wanted to do in Paris was get his dog a piece of Vuitton. Luggage
for Linda.
Victor fought with driver. He screamed and jumped out and said he’d
never see us again.
Halston was fun buying shoes at Hermès, he said he never shops, which
he doesn’t—he really doesn’t have time.
Limoed to Club Sept. Victor called me there and said he’d calmed down,
said he’d come in a costume, but he came normal.
Then limoed to the Palace. Halston had called ahead and said, “Mr.
Steve Rubell of Studio 54 will be coming by your club tonight—of course
you’ll want to let him and his party in free.” I got the driver in with us
because I felt bad for him because of Victor’s fight. Victor got one of the
waiters to loan him his outfit and so Victor went around taking everyone’s
orders.
Friday, July 27, 1979—Paris—New York
I’d just gone to bed at 6:00 but at 7:30 Halston was knocking on my door.
He hates being away from New York and he wanted to get back, but it was
a horror trip getting up. And the hotel was just so beautiful, it had the
geraniums in the window and red awnings. And Steve didn’t want to get up
and go, either, but after a half-hour of coaxing he did get up. We had to sit
and eat breakfast but it was torture. Victor had his own room upstairs that
he’d gotten after having an agitation, and he was cranky.
Halston really enjoys screaming. When he’s paying he gets so grand and
yells and tells everybody off about how rotten the service is for what he’s
paying, and when he pays the bill he makes you feel—well, he’s like me,
only worse. He tells you how he has to go back to New York to slave so
hard so he can make money so you can go on spending it all, and oh, God!
—he makes you feel so funny about it. But then it is just incredible what
hotels cost now.
Finally Victor and everybody was in the car and we got to the Concorde
on time, and Steve wasn’t tipping the driver who hadn’t even slept, he’d
been out with us all night, so I gave him a fifty.
As soon as we got on the plane everyone fell asleep. The stewardess
woke Halston up and he screamed at her that she better not wake him up
again.
I wanted to get the Concorde silverware, and I wanted to wake Victor up
and ask him to ask for food so I could get more settings—I’m working up to
a twelve-piece setting—but I didn’t wake him up so I only got one set. It
was an easy flight. Then we went through customs and the customs guy
used to be a cabdriver who had me in his cab once, so he sailed me right
through. Got home and went to the office. Cab fares had gone up ($4).
It was a hot day and when I got to the office nobody was doing a thing.
Brigid was waiting for the cake lady from New Jersey to deliver a cake for
her mother’s birthday, she was taking it out to the country for her later on.
David Whitney called and said I had to get some of the portraits to Paris,
and I called Fred but I couldn’t get him. Worked till about 7:30 with Rupert.
Read my mail.
Sunday, July 29, 1979
Do you know what Jean Stein did? She called up my family in
Pennsylvania and wanted to go down there and interview them for her book
on Edie—she told them she was doing “a book on the sixties.” What nerve!
And I talked to Henry Post. His leg’s still in a cast, but the car insurance
company got him a nurse to type for him, that’s what they do. We talked
about John Berendt getting fired from New York—Henry said he knew it
was coming because they hired a girl three weeks before they fired him.
Henry says there’s a list of people who bought drugs at Studio 54, that that’s
what the prosecution is following.
Curley called and wanted to go to dinner but I was too tired and
exhausted, still.
Monday, July 30, 1979
Got up early and watched the Today Show. It was so great, so good to see
good American TV again. Then I walked around passing out Interviews, and
that was great to do again, too. I walked around midtown and then up
toward the Pierre Hotel where the North American Watch Company was
having Ronald Reagan speak at lunch. I was meeting Vincent there. I
thought I was early so I stopped in Tiffany’s. I thought they’d have cocktails
for an hour first and then start about 1:00, but it turned out they got right to
it, so when I arrived at 12:5 5 Vincent was pacing and we went in. Barbara
Sullivan from the watch company was sweet, she introduced me to Ronald
Reagan as “Andy Warhol, the artist.” But the photographers were behind us,
so they didn’t get any pictures. Right next to Ronald Reagan was Harry
Platt, the president of Tiffany’s, and so I told him that the reason I was late
was because I was shopping at Tiffany’s. And he loved that. I was on a diet,
so I just had steaks. Art Buchwald gave a speech, and he’s really funny, he
should be on TV. And then Ronald Reagan gave a speech and the
Republicans are going to play it cool and let the Democrats fight it out
among themselves and then Teddy Kennedy will probably take over.
Ronald Reagan looks absolutely great if he’s sixty-nine. He called Governor
Jerry Brown “flaky.” What does “flaky” mean? Then they whisked him off
the stage and he didn’t mingle, and I think that’s terrible.
I worked till about 7:30 and then dropped Rupert ($4). I called Barbara
Allen and asked if she wanted to be my date, and she said she was free. So
at 8:30 we cabbed to Le Club ($4). When we walked in, Vitas wasn’t so
thrilled, he’s been cold since the article on him in Interview came out
because of the picture of him with no shirt with his arms around a guy.
Barbara was wearing somebody’s pajamas, but it looked good. She’s
moving to California, she said. She showed me a necklace from Cartier that
Bill Paley gave her, a gold one, and she says all these guys like Gianni
Agnelli and Bill Paley are in love with her.
Oh, and there are so many Arabs in London. If only we could get Arab
portraits to do. They haven’t really come to America yet, but they’re all
over England. And they’re filthy rich—if only we could get started on that.
Tuesday, July 31, 1979
Ron Feldman added Harry Guggenheim’s name to the list of Famous Jews
he wants painted for the series. We discussed doing Woody Allen and
Charlie Chaplin, but we didn’t know if Chaplin really was Jewish.
I went home and then walked over to meet John Fairchild, Jr. at Le
Relais. Ralph Lauren was there.
John’s got an older girlfriend now. So does Robyn Geddes. Forty-year-
olds who boss them around (dinner $190).
Wednesday, August 1, 1979
John Reinhold gave me a platinum loupe for an early birthday present. But I
couldn’t tell him it had the wrong date inscribed—instead of 8-6-79 it said
8-5. Last year he did the right date.
Thursday, August 2, 1979
I sent Rupert to UPI to look for photos for the Famous Jews series.
At home I started watching Brief Encounter and at first I thought it was
really good, but then I started thinking what a stupid story about a lady who
would give herself a problem when she had a happy marriage, and it was
just dumb and I hated it. And then Lisa Rance called and asked if I’d
watched it and wasn’t it beautiful so I told her off and hung up on her.
Saturday, August 4, 1979
Picked up Rupert down at his place on White Street. Rupert’s trying to buy
the building his loft is in. Actually it’s two buildings—the one he’s in and
the one next to it. I guess Rupert has plenty of money or he wouldn’t be
thinking about buying buildings. His mother’s from Palm Beach, but she
just looks like a mother. When Rupert went in drag to a party once, he
looked just like his mother. Rupert Jason Smith.
I went out and got cheese and candy for my birthday on Monday and
then went back upstairs and worked with Rupert for about four hours. Then
we cabbed down to Christopher Street ($2) and wandered around there
seeing what’s new.
Monday, August 6, 1979
My birthday. When I got to the office I cut the cake right away, so that I
wouldn’t have to do it in front of everybody. It tasted awful. Brigid ordered
it from the woman in New Jersey. I told her to be sure it was a wedding
cake. It was three tiers. In the end, though, it really wasn’t big enough.
People came in and out all day and ate the cake. I usually ignore my
birthday and order everyone not to mention it, but this year I was in a party
mood and didn’t want to fight it. I actually arranged the party myself and
invited people over.
Jackie Curtis called me on the phone and Mary Woronov. Suzie
Frankfurt came down and de Antonio came by, he looked a little skinnier.
Honey Berlin called and every time she finds out I’m a Leo she’s
surprised. Madeline Netter came by and was sweet and fun and then
volunteered to help clean up and then we went over to 65 Irving. Fabrizzi
gave us free birthday drinks. And then we cabbed to Brooklyn ($5) and had
a steak dinner under the Williamsburg Bridge at Peter Luger’s. Got home
early.
Tuesday, August 7, 1979
Worked until 7:30. Halston was giving me a birthday party. He knew my
birthday was the day before but I guess he just didn’t want to have to do it
on a Monday. It was nice, just for the kids from the office. Truman was
there and D.D. Ryan told him that she liked the Siamese Twins interview he
did with himself seven or eight years ago that was just like the one he did in
this month’s Interview, and he got very embarrassed and at first he denied
he’d ever done one like it but then later he admitted that he had.
Ronnie came with a girl dressed as a nurse who’s a bartender at the
Mudd Club. Then out came the birthday cake which was a huge baked
cookie, like a Famous Amos, only it looked like a big plop of shit, it was
funny.
Halston didn’t give me the kind of expensive presents he did last year, I
guess he thought it was too hard to go through that and do it every year, so
he broke the tradition and gave me twenty boxes. One had skates, another
had a helmet, another had a radio, and then earphones, and then kneepads,
and then gloves, and a How to Skate book. And Victor had his own skates,
too, so we went outside and skated in front of the house. It was fun. Jane
Holzer and Bob Denison came late. Then we ordered limos to go to Studio
54. Oh, and Steve gave me a good present. A roll of 5,000 of the new free
drink tickets he’d just had printed up for the new year.
Wednesday, August 8, 1979
Commissioner Geldzahler called and said he was upset because Raymond
was leaving town. Fred brought in the pictures of Liza and they were
horrible. I mean, they were clear and sharp, but Liza’s not fat and they made
her look fat, and like a drag queen. The expressions were wrong, too.
Richard Bernstein’s going to have to do a big creative job on them for the
Interview cover.
Later that night we cabbed to Studio 54 ($4). Steve was at the door and
he said that Valerie and Robin Williams were inside and he brought me over
to them. There’ve been stories in the papers that they were getting divorced,
but Valerie said it wasn’t true. Cheryl Tiegs came in with Peter Beard and I
guess she wanted to have her picture taken with Robin but Valerie said no,
no pictures. Valerie’s very tough, she runs things, and then she turned to me
and asked if I thought it was okay that she was that tough, if she should be.
She said that Robin was invited to Fire Island for the weekend but she
didn’t want him to go. She said, “It would be too big a strain on both of us.”
So then I thought that maybe she’s afraid he could be a fairy. She said she
wanted them to go someplace like Nantucket instead.
I introduced her to a cute waiter named Robert who wasn’t working, and
she seemed sort of hot for him and they danced but then she got nervous—
maybe she’d just wanted to get Robin jealous for a minute. He’s still
wearing the clothes we bought that day down in the Village. He’s got such a
funny-shaped body.
Steve was smoking a joint and when the person who gave it to him
wanted it back, Steve started screaming.
Sunday, August 12, 1979
I’d taken the Popism manuscript home with me to read and so I worked on
that all afternoon and then called PH and discussed it. Went to church for a
few minutes. The weather was awful, it was pouring.
Friday, August 17, 1979
Went to the Gulf + Western building for a meeting with Paramount Pictures
to do the poster artwork for the movie The Serial. I didn’t realize it was
such a big meeting, I was fifteen minutes late and there were twenty people
there. Fred was there with a hangover, really sick, so he was no help. The
guy—his name was Cohen with a “K”—Kohen, he pointed out the window,
he had a corner view, and said, “You’ve got to do a good job so I can keep
the office.” He kept saying, “I’ll know it when I see it.” It was so old-
fashioned.
After we left the meeting Fred and I walked a lot because he felt so sick.
We thought that it wasn’t really a good thing to do, so he’ll just tell them a
really high price, and if they say okay then I’ll do it.
Read in the Post that Truman lost round one of the court battle with
Gore Vidal, the million-dollar lawsuit. The judge decided not to throw it out
of court.
Monday, August 20, 1979
Cabbed to Irving Place, got out at Gramercy Park ($1.50). Saw a squirrel
eating a nut. Went to 65 Irving and de Antonio and his wife were already
there. We asked him to write for Interview and he’s going to find someone
to interview.
While the lunch was going on, the owners of 65 Irving were
interviewing for new waiters off in a corner. Left lunch about 4:15 (lunch
$67).
Ran into Barry Friedman on the street and he gave me the cold shoulder,
I don’t know why. He was with a girl, and either he was drugged or wigged-
out or gone up in the world, I don’t know.
Tuesday, August 21, 1979
Worked until 7:30 (cab $4). Went home and did some drawings. Not one
single person called. I guess everyone must be on vacation.
Sunday, August 26, 1979
Barry Landau called and said that The New York Times had been over at his
place asking him if he’d seen Hamilton Jordan in the basement of Studio
54, and he said that he’d told them yes, that he couldn’t lie. I went to
church.
Monday, August 27, 1979
There was no lunch on, and I was being good and not eating, but then Fred
wanted to try out the new thing in the McDonald’s commercial—the beef
and onion sandwich. It tasted like cardboard and it was in pieces like it had
already been chewed. The onions were the only good thing, they were real.
That was strange, having real onions and the rest of the stuff phony. The
sauce was good, but it was really sweet.
There was a big thunderstorm in the afternoon.
Tuesday, August 28, 1979
On the front page of the Post was a big picture of Barry Landau saying that
he saw Hamilton Jordan at Studio 54 asking where he could get coke.
Wednesday, August 29, 1979
Got up and cabbed to Union Square ($3.50). Walked to the office. Fred had
the papers and we were reading about Studio 54 and really laughing it up.
Then the phone rang and it was the FBI and we stopped laughing. I
wouldn’t take the call, I had Fred talk to them, and they’re coming to see
me today. Then Halston called and said the FBI had just been to see him,
too, but he said he wouldn’t say over the phone what happened. It’s funny,
they’re wasting their time on this stuff. Don’t they have a Ten Most Wanted
list anymore? I mean, they’re trying to find Barry Landau who everybody
else is trying not to find!
Rupert and I worked on the Ten Most Famous Jews series. I haven’t
been told for sure yet who’se in it. Sarah Bernhardt. Maybe Woody Allen.
Charlie Chaplin, Freud, Modigliani, Martin Buber. Who is Martin Buber?
The Guggenheims. Oh, and Einstein. And Gertrude Stein. Kafka (photos for
research $2.20). I think they were considering Bob Dylan but I read that he
turned born-again Christian.
Thursday, August 30, 1979
Cabbed to Union Square ($3.60). Walked to the office. Made some phone
calls, had a little lunch. There was a crowd of models there that Barry
McKinley was taking photographs of, mostly male models, they were so
good-looking. Why are there so many to choose from now? Because there’s
nobody in the army? Wouldn’t it be great to do a whole movie of nothing
but good-looking kids—the butcher, the baker—all models.
Friday, August 31, 1979
The Interview arrived and it’s the Liza cover, there’s lots of smudges on it. I
was disappointed because it didn’t seem that thick. Only forty pages of ads,
the issue was only eighty-eight pages. And Vogue this month is so fat it
looks like a telephone book.
I had to meet my agent Joan Hyler at Elaine’s so I could meet the guy
who might get me a guest appearance on The Love Boat (cab $3). Elaine
was there looking very slim. It was Joan Hyler, Bob Feiden, Steven Gaines,
and this guy Tim from The Love Boat. At the next table was Jerzy Kosinski
and his girlfriend Kiki with a Polish kid, an assistant cameraman who just
defected and he was overwhelmed, it was his first day in New York and he
was meeting me. Because he’d read the Philosophy book in Poland. He
hadn’t actually defected yet. You can’t defect on a holiday, so he had to wait
until Tuesday.
Then we went to Studio 54 and Mark let us in, and I made Curley dance
with Tim to show him a good time. We stayed until 5:00 and then I took the
kids to a coffee shop and we had tea ($15) and then I got a cab. Steve
Rubell was at Studio 54, sober, and he said wasn’t it great what Barry was
doing, and for a second I forgot Barry was doing it for Steve and so I started
to say how horrible Barry was, but I caught myself. It’s Steve’s deal with
the government—if he gives them names he’ll get a better deal. So Barry’s
helping him give names.
Tuesday, September 4, 1979
Bruno Bischofberger still is after me to give him a lot of my early photos
for his photography collection. When did I start taking Polaroids? 1965?
Bruno wants me to paint the Statue of Liberty and I haven’t decided yet if
I’ll do it. I tried to talk him out of the Statue of Liberty and get him
interested in the Heart paintings that I’ve been doing.
Ran into Diane Von Furstenberg who said she’s not going to go to Studio
54 anymore because she thinks it’s wrong of Steve to be naming names.
Wednesday, September 5, 1979
It was the beginning of hurricane weather outside, grey. I wandered around,
passed out Interviews—the Liza new ones—and thought about Montauk.
They said this hurricane is traveling the path of the one in 1938, and that’s
when Montauk took a beating. I ran into Charles Evans and he gave me a
ride, and we had a good talk about all the girls he knows.
Picked Bob up at 7:45 and went to the Magno screening room to see
Yanks. I invited Curley and he and Bob loved the movie but I couldn’t stand
it. It was a forties movie, and if you want to see a forties movie they’re on
TV all the time and you can have great-looking people like Tyrone Power,
not Richard Gere! The movie had no war and no bombing.
After the movie we went to a Claude Montana fashion show at Studio
54. It was just finishing. Larissa said that Claude Montana was a genius and
she asked me if I wanted to meet him. I’d seen the big photograph of him
out in the front, this eight-foot figure, and she pulled over this little twerp of
five feet with a mustache and American clothes and said it was him and that
he was shy.
Thursday, September 6, 1979
I got up and David was around—Hurricane David. I guess it rained all
night, that’s what must have gotten me up in the middle of the night.
Went out and passed out Interviews. On the street I ran into David
Kennerly, the White House photographer, he was in town to promote a
book, he said. Only I didn’t recognize him at first, then finally he said
something about the White House and it was able to dawn on me who he
was.
Walked down a little ways and wandered into all the usual places. The
hurricane never really happened. It stopped raining. The trees in the park
were sort of down, but not much.
And the headlines are about David Kennedy going to Harlem to buy
drugs. He’s the crazy one who had the fight with Fred at Xenon. It was cute
when he said to the police, “I’m David Kennedy, please don’t tell my
family, I just want to go to Hyannis.”
Saturday, September 8, 1979
Drove to Forest Hills. Had good seats. Went to the locker room. Billie Jean
King said hello. Watched Martina Navratilova and Tracy Austin play, but I
hate watching girls play, I hate the way they play, they just don’t play that
well, I can’t stand it.
McEnroe and Connors played each other, and they’re the same kind of
people, the same type.
Tuesday, September 11, 1979
I was taking Marina Schiano to Charles Evans’s dinner and I had to walk
over to the armory to pick her up. She was at the antiques fair there with
Jed. Admission was $3 5 which I stupidly paid because nobody told me that
it was put on by the Folk Art Museum that I’m a trustee of. I met up with
the guy who runs the museum, Bishop, who thinks my collection’s no good.
He’s stupid. I hate all that American Primitive stuff now anyway, the jazzy
painted stuff—it looks like junk —the toys and dolls and merry-go-rounds
and Indian baskets.
At Charles Evans’s dinner Bo Polk was there, and he knew every single
girl in the room. He and Stephanie McLuhan are broken up, but she was
there, too. Bo accused me of being the one who introduced him to Barry
Landau, but really he knows I really warned him.
Saturday, September 15, 1979—New York—
Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania—New York
Suzie Frankfurt picked us up in a limo that belonged to a decorating client
of hers. A beautiful day. We went straight to the Brandywine River Museum
and then someone there took us to Frolic Weymouth’s house. He had a tent
over the whole place and good chicken salad. All the right people were
there. Lady Bird Johnson, Henry and Shirlee Fonda, rich old ladies who
look like bulldogs.
Then we went over to Jamie Wyeth’s who spent the whole time giving
an interview to WWD, and Phyllis was in the pool. I talked to Shirlee
Fonda. She said they sold their East Side New York house on 79th Street to
David Brenner, but then he backed out at the last minute, he said that he
was too famous to own a house. She said that if Henry Fonda could own a
house, David Brenner could, too. But she’s very happy because now they’re
renting the house for $5,000 a month and making more money that way.
When she was cleaning the place out, she found a big gold cross worth
about $20,000 behind the bookshelves and they’re going to try to find out
who it belonged to. She said that she wouldn’t have felt right keeping it. I
could see that Suzie really wanted it badly, she likes gold crosses.
We went back to Frolic’s to change. The girls got into their ball gowns.
Oh, and Henry Fonda has all his teeth. He was eating green apples. I’m sure
they’re his because they’re sort of darkened.
Suzie was rolling a joint and it was embarrassing. I had one of those
peppermint drinks, mint julep, and I threw it out. Suzie forgot to feed the
driver and that was terrible.
At the museum Frolic introduced me to Governor Scranton and his wife
and some old ladies. Had a few drinks, pictures, dinner. Marina Schiano and
Jed changed placecards so they’d be next to each other, they weren’t happy.
I was next to Nancy Hanks on one side and the sister of Henry Mcllhenny,
Bonny Wintersteen, on the other side. Nancy Hanks is the head of the
National Endowment for the Arts, I guess, she got Jamie on her advisory
committee, The National Council on the Arts. Bonny Wintersteen was
fascinating and fun. She’s fat with grey hair pulled back very tight. She sold
her ten most famous paintings to the Japanese a few years ago when they
were going for very high prices, she said she got tired of people showing up
at her house and demanding to see them.
I met a lot of kids in black tie who said they met me twenty years ago at
the University of Pennsylvania when Edie and I went there for my show.
We left at about 10:30 and I fell asleep in the car.
Sunday, September 16, 1979
Went to Lester Persky’s Yanks party at Trader Vic’s. It turned out to be a
really intimate dinner for only about fourteen people. Lester arrived with
Richard Gere, and John Schlesinger arrived and Tommy Dean. Lester has a
thin mustache now. Richard Gere asked me how Lester and I had met and I
told him that we met in the gutter ten years ago, and this time Lester didn’t
like that, so it was my first faux pas. Richard Gere said that ten years ago he
came in on a bus from New Jersey and went to see our movie Bike Boy in
the Village, and he said from then on he’s been trying to be an actor—it
took him eleven years, he said. He’s big and good-looking. We were talking
about girls and he was talking about meeting the most beautiful girl in
Rome—Dalila DiLazzaro—at a party in Zeffirelli’s backyard and I told him
we discovered her—that Paul Morrissey had seen her doing a soap
commercial on Italian TV and made her the star of Frankenstein—and he
was impressed. He’s going to be in a new play called Bent which is an
English one about homos in concentration camps. I asked him if he was
Italian and he said no, that he was French and Irish.
Steve Rubell came later. When Steve’s normal, he’s so distant. Lester
told funny stories. Then I made another faux pas, I said that it was so much
fun there, nobody should leave. And Steve was sitting right there. And I
wasn’t even thinking about the party at 54, I was just wanting to make
Lester spend more money entertaining us because he’s always so cheap.
John Schlesinger gave a speech.
Monday, September 17, 1979
Cab to Union Square ($4). There was a lunch for Jack Kroll from Newsweek
and I had invited two friends of his, too, one who made a movie that Jack
liked called Anti-Clock, and I didn’t know if the girl was his girlfriend or if
she did P.R. It’s a small movie, an art movie. They told me, “It’s your kind
of movie” (laughs), so you can imagine what it’s like.
Bob told me the reason he’s after Newsweek is so they’ll do a cover
story on me, but I don’t want one. I mean, what’re they going to say?
Reporters will just rehash. “He lives on the Upper East Side with two
dachshunds and he’s a sometimes walking-stick for Paulette Goddard.”
Well maybe they’ll feel the same way I do, too, that it’s too boring. I mean
you have to do something different like get married and have a couple of
kids or take a few drugs or lose a few hundred pounds or die, to be good
copy.
Dropped Rupert and Bob ($4) and went home and got into black tie.
Robyn’s mother, Mrs. Amory, invited me to the Cancer dance. I invited
Gael Malkenson. I went over to Gael’s and she was in a bright green dress.
We had a drink there. Her boyfriend is out of town. He works at a cheese
company, and she’s gotten fat because he brings home all this cheese.
Cabbed to Lincoln Center ($2.50).
They had an orchestra and all the old bags were out on the floor doing
the foxtrot, and there’s always that one seventy-five or eighty-year-old lady
who gets out there and is the first to start really jumping. These old bags
still want men to go to bed with them. They look like the ladies at Bonnie &
Clyde, that dyke bar downtown where every table it’s women who look like
anybody’s mother.
The Gilmans were there, they’re now best friends with Robyn’s mother,
they have a house next to her in Tuxedo Park. And I asked Sondra whatever
happened to Adela Holzer, and she said, “My dear, you won’t believe it,
she’s been staying with me at my house for eight months and she’s going to
come out of court victorious.” That’s a good friend, I guess. But then if
she’s such a good friend, why did she let her sit in jail for four days?
The raffle was a trip to Milan. Why would someone want to go to
Milan?
Gael and I spent the night talking about the magazine, and Robyn and I
tried to get her to dish Bob, but she said she wouldn’t talk about her boss,
she just said she goes to the other side of the room when he screams.
Tuesday, September 18, 1979
Forgot that Halston was on the Donahue Show so I missed it.
Ronnie was working, getting ready for his two weeks off when he goes
to California to visit Gigi.
Wednesday, September 19, 1979
Got up early because there was a big lunch down at the office, Brigid had
invited Stanley Marcus from Neiman-Marcus. Cabbed to Union Square and
walked to office (cab $3, kitchen supplies $125). The building had just
finished painting the downstairs lobby. They made it Puerto Rican colors
and you just hate to walk into it.
Mr. Marcus was a funny little man. I was trying to sneak some cole slaw
and he caught me eating. We were expecting Fred back from Europe, but he
never arrived. Rupert came by. Curley came and took the umbrella I’d
borrowed from the Heinzes a few nights ago back to them. Jack Heinz had
called about it and said it was his favorite one.
I told Carole Rogers at Interview to try to register the word Out as the
title for a magazine, and she said the only way to register it is to actually do
up a dummy of a magazine with that name. Because I want to start another
newspaper—one that’s younger than Interview because Interview’s so
established now. Dropped Rupert ($4) and got into black tie and went to
pick up Suzie Frankfurt and Bob.
We walked to the Pierre for the Gianni Versace fashion show. Gianni
Versace was at our table, but not until after the show. And Carrie Donovan
was there who always gave me my first jobs. André Leon Talley was next to
me and he’s just such a camp. And that guy who doesn’t like us from
Women’s Wear, what’s his name? Michael Coady, he was at the table with
his I guess girlfriend and this time he was nice, actually. And Ludovic who
runs Regine’s.
The fashion show had Joe MacDonald and European girls. It was funny
fabrics—lace and suede and leather. The clothes he makes this year are very
feminine, though, kind of draped and ugly. At the end he got emotional and
(laughs) cried.
Ludovic invited us to Regine’s, but we were going to first go to a party
Nelson had invited us to for Michael O’Donoghue who wrote Mondo Video,
a movie that’s coming out. I paid for a limo we got ($15) to Tango Palace
on 47th and Broadway and the place looked like the old Factory with silver
tinfoil on the walls. And the dime-a-dance girls now cost $20-a-second. A
lady with breasts as big as Geri Miller’s in Trash was there, vulgar, dancing.
The party was disgusting, the creepiest kids came over and talked to me. A
band called The Clits was playing. Richard Turley was there and he loved
the place.
Thursday, September 20, 1979
I had to go to a screening of that movie Anti-Clock that Jack Kroll’s friends
made, they were giving it just for me and I didn’t want to go alone, so I
invited John Reinhold and Curley, and Thomas Ammann because he’s
interested in art movies. We went to 48th and Broadway (cab $3). I was five
minutes late and they’d started the movie. It was out of focus, it only went
into focus about four times. It was a double screen, filmed in video and
transferred onto film, it had a girl masturbating in a shower. Then the film
looked like it broke and we didn’t know if it had or if it was the end of the
movie, and none of us dared to ask, so we just sat there in the dark, and then
finally when a guy came out of the projection booth carrying the film, we
knew it was really over. We didn’t know what to say and the girl showing it
wanted us to say something, so finally I said, “I liked it,” and she was
relieved.
Friday, September 21, 1979
Got up and wandered around, passing out Interviews. I went to Manolo
Blahnik’s new shoe store on 65th and Madison, next to Kron’s, really
beautiful, one-of-a-kind shoes. Went to Kron’s ($58.68). It was raining so it
was just impossible to get a taxi, everybody was waiting. But Gene Shalit
came along in a car and said he’d drop me and I said that it was way way
too out of his way, and he said that anything I wanted wasn’t too much. His
line is that he doesn’t smoke or drink or take drugs—all he does is work. He
said he got Meryl Streep for an interview and I asked him what his secret
was, that we’d been trying to get her for our magazine, and he said he just
got her by working hard. He said he picks up the phone himself, that he
never has an assistant do it. He dropped me all the way downtown and I
worked all afternoon, then dropped Rupert off (cab $4).
Then I got myself together, I was Sharon Hammond’s date for a party
for Alexis Smith at a restaurant called Dukes, before they took The Best
Little Whorehouse in Texas on the road. Sat between Mrs. Long and Twyla
Tharp, and Twyla was saying that she was a has-been, that her movie career
was over, that Lester and Hair ruined it because they didn’t use enough of
her dancing, but I don’t see how they could have used more. She had her
good-looking younger boyfriend who she’s been living with for years with
her. She tried to pretend that she didn’t have anything to do with the Judson
dancers—the dancers in Judson Church in the Village in the sixties—and
when I would mention one of their names she wouldn’t really say she knew
them, she said she was just down in the basement or something, but then
after she’d had a few drinks, she began telling things about the dancers that
she’d pretended she didn’t know. And her boyfriend had even said to her,
“Why are you pretending you had nothing to do with the Judson?” I guess
she was just a dumb dancer who must have picked up what they were doing
and just made it, somehow. I don’t know how. She acts like she feels she’s
more important than them now. It was fun to talk to her.
Geoffrey Holder was there, and Geraldine Stutz, all the old-timers. It
was a nice party. And then we went to New York/New York. Lester Persky
was there and he was fun, and Jack Martin, I always have a great time with
Jack Martin, he’s so much fun. He said that the Marilyn portfolio that I gave
Joyce Haber was getting mildewed in her basement, and that once he was
able to get Rona Barrett to give him the Marilyn poster I’d given her by
saying, “Oh Rona, what do you have that stupid thing for?” and so she gave
it to him. Jack knows about art, he has a few things. I gave Joyce the
Marilyn portfolio after she wrote that big article on us in the L.A. Times in
the late sixties and she’d just broken up with her husband, Doug Cramer, so
I thought the portfolio would cheer her up and it was before I knew how
much they’d be worth. They’re so expensive now.
Saturday, September 22, 1979
Down at the office. I went across the street to the farmer’s market and got
some things for the kitchen ($8). Interview was working.
Thomas Ammann picked me up in his limo and we went to Nippon to
meet everybody. It was Wilson Kidde and Billy Kimball—he’s a friend of
Wilson’s who goes to Harvard—John Reinhold, Robert Hayes, Curley,
Keller Donovan the decorator, Rupert and his new friend—there were ten of
us, all boys, so it was embarrassing. I heard an older couple at the next table
say (laughs), “Oh it must be a prep school with their headmasters,” because
John and I looked the oldest and the kids were all in ties and jackets. We
had a good time (dinner $300). Then we decided to go to Cowboys and
after that we went to Rounds. A guy there said he met me in Tennessee and
he asked if he could sit with us to see what New York was really like
($105). Joe MacDonald was there and said that Flamingo was reopening so
we went, and the guy let us in free because I’d judged a male beauty contest
there. Flamingo was great because it was brand-new, and then at 3:00
Thomas Ammann dropped me off.
Sunday, September 23, 1979
I went to church and then went home. I glued myself together and Curley
picked me up and we went to 42nd Street to the WPIX radio station for the
John Ogel Show. I’d invited Walter Steding to play his magic violin on the
air, he was good and he sounded intelligent when he was interviewed.
Then Lou Reed rushed in and said how glad he was to see us. Lou told
me one of his dachshunds had had an operation on his back. I told him to
come down to the Mudd Club with us later because they were having a
Dead Rock Stars Night, and he said he would go as himself, but I told him
he looks too good for that now.
We stopped for dinner at One Fifth (cab $3). When we walked in Jackie
Curtis—he’s back to dressing as a girl—was at the bar with, who else,
Taylor Mead, who happened to be waiting for, who else, Viva. And then
they were all on their way down to the Mudd Club. Had drinks ($45.14) and
then it was 11:30 so we went to the Mudd Club, too (cab $3). They had a
room where Janis Joplin was putting needles in her arm, and they had a
Paul McCartney room—I guess because of the rumor that he died once—
and they had Mama Cass choking to death with a plate of ham sandwiches
in front of her and you could take the sandwiches and eat them. It was
really sick. Vincent and Don Munroe were there videotaping.
Viva was reading poetry but I missed it, I didn’t see her. François de
Menil was there. The ex-Mr. Viva was there. They had girls in black crying,
and then outside a hearse pulled up. I was really tired. Dropped everybody
off (cab $15).
Tuesday, October 9, 1979
Went to Union Square at 12:45 to meet the Newhouses, the mother and son,
Si and Mitzi. They brought pictures of the husband who just died, but they
weren’t right so they’re going to send down some more for a portrait. She
might want her portrait done, too. Nobody was around, so Victor served.
She’s a short little woman, she’s eighty-two years old. I asked the son about
Self magazine—he said they survey everything by computer every month,
that’s how they know what’s happening.
Had to go to Richard Weisman’s party for Governor Brown that
Catherine had arranged. Curley was with me, Fred had invited him. Bad
traffic, Castro’s in town (cab $3.50). Bo Polk was there, and he invited me
to a George Bush party. Then Pat Hickey the hockey player arrived with his
girlfriend and he looked like the Tareyton ad, his eye was all black.
Governor Brown came and he gave a speech and I taped it and afterwards
he asked what I taped it for and all the kids told him, “For nothing—he just
throws the tapes in a box.” He didn’t say much, but when you give speeches
all the time, what’s left to talk about?
Stephanie was back with Bo Polk, Stephanie McLuhan, but I noticed she
made a beeline for the governor when he arrived and kissed him, although
she didn’t know him. And then after the speech she got up and asked an
involved question, I guess to show she was intelligent, but she was stupid
and he was stupid. He came around afterwards to shake my hand and get
my vote, he said something referring to the art thing, I guess—the
legislation that would make artists get royalties or something when their
paintings are resold—but it didn’t make sense to me. Diane Von
Furstenberg told him he’d gotten too skinny, that he’d lost his “love
handles” and that she’d liked them. I wanted somebody to ask, “Is Jerry a
fairy?” and Diane said no, that he wasn’t, that Jerry’s no fairy. Judith
Hollander and Jed were there, they came by on their way to Tom Cashin’s
birthday party at “21.” I just wanted to go home but Catherine wanted me to
go to Elaine’s with Rod and Judy Gilbert and Pat Hickey and his girlfriend.
Elaine was sitting at a table with five girls and one I think was Candy
Bergen because later people said that it was but it didn’t look like her and I
looked at her and she looked at me and we didn’t say anything. If it was her,
she looks older. Pat Hickey took his girlfriend home and then came back
because Catherine had been flirting with him all evening. Richard was
trying to get me to drink tequila, and about 2:00 I left (cab $3).
Thursday, October 11, 1979
Got up and it was raining, cold again. Somebody ran into Truman in New
Orleans, so evidently he didn’t go to Nebraska. Maybe he just needed some
money—he asked us for $6,000 to go to Nebraska to do a story for
Interview and we gave it to him.
I worked all afternoon in the back.
Fred was in one of those moods, mussing people’s hair up, and he
invited Curley to go to the Larry Rivers show at Marlborough with us.
Larry’s show is like a retrospective of all his work. It’s funny, it’s like he
ran out of ideas and decided to repaint everything. In the elevator I ran into
the Greek woman whose portrait I just did, but I didn’t recognize her. And I
also ran into Rupert who said my Gem screens came out okay. At the
opening a guy said, “I’m Larry’s brother-in-law and I own the building your
office is in,” and he said that he’d just rented the ground floor to a
discotheque but that we shouldn’t worry, that it wouldn’t interfere with us
because it wouldn’t be going on during our business hours. I told him
thanks a lot. So, I mean, isn’t that great? The Mafia discotheque fires will
only burn the place to the ground after office hours. Isn’t that wonderful, a
discotheque for a neighbor.
Then I went to dinner at the Gilmans’ where I met a lawyer who’s in
New York to go to tax-shelter school.
Friday, October 12, 1979
It was raining, another awful day. Michael Zivian called in the morning and
asked me to come up and sign some of my Spacefruits, so I walked up
Madison to his place.
Henry Post called and I talked to him, but I was afraid he was taping me,
so I didn’t say anything. He’d sent me an article he wrote on Quaaludes for
New York. He’s still out to get Steve Rubell.
Sunday, October 14, 1979
I went to church and it was pretty out. Then met Bob at about 5:00 to go up
to see the Dalai Lama at St. John the Divine Cathedral on 112th Street and
Broadway. We picked Fred up and went uptown (cab $6). The Dalai Lama
gave his speech, it was so boring, he had an interpreter but I don’t know
why because later he talked English very well. He was wearing an orange
and red dress. Then there was a party in the back and everyone was
standing around shaking hands. Bob said he wasn’t impressed with the
Dalai Lama because he wasn’t as good as the pope.
Then we left, got a cab, dropped Bob off, and we went to meet Richard
Weisman and Catherine at Madison Square Garden where they were going
to retire Rod Gilbert’s number 7 (cab $7). Catherine has to go to the
hospital to have the nerve in one of her hands retied because she still can’t
feel it. Her mother’s coming to town and Catherine hopes she won’t notice
anything. Only her brothers Valentine and Jasper know what happened.
Monday, October 22, 1979
Priscilla Presley came to the office and we interviewed her. Her boyfriend
was with her, Michael Edwards, the model. She admitted she’d never had
caviar in all her years with Elvis because he hated fish and would have
thrown her out of the house if he saw her eating any. God, what a beauty. I
wonder if she had her nose fixed, though. It looked a little wider in the early
pictures you see of her.
Monday, October 29, 1979
I have to do a portrait for the Whitney show, so we thought since it’s
portraits, I should do myself up in drag. It was Fred’s idea. I’ve got to get
Gigi in to do my makeup. And Ronnie’s all nervous because he has an art
show coming up downtown—he constructs cages as art now.
Tuesday, October 30, 1979
I ran into Juan Hamilton who was coming down to the office later. He and
Georgia O’Keeffe are at the Mayfair (cab $3.50). As I got to the office
Joseph Beuys, the German artist, was getting out of a car with his children
and Heiner Bastion—about eight people. He kissed me on the mouth and I
got nervous. I didn’t know what to talk to him about. Heiner Friedrich and
Philippa de Menil came by. And Robert Hayes had Sally Kellerman and
Barry Diller and Barry McKinley there, and there was no room to sit down.
And Heiner Bastion said I should photograph Beuys for a portrait. Then I
was photographing Georgia and Juan in the back. It’s too hard with famous
people at the office all at the same time because nobody can understand
why anybody else is there. I worked until 4:00 with Georgia. Finally they
all left.
Later I went to the horse show at Madison Square Garden. I went over
with a bunch of horse people to the Statler Hilton for scrambled eggs and
bacon, I guess that’s what horse people like to eat. It was good. I stole some
silverware and then it was embarrassing because it fell out and everybody
saw it. It was Statler Hilton silverware from the forties.
At Studio 54 after that I ran into Steve Rubell who said that on Friday he
was going to be sentenced to two months in jail, that he’d made a deal with
the government—they’d dropped the drug charges and he’d pleaded guilty
to income tax evasion. He asked if we’d come and visit him.
Wednesday, October 31, 1979
Bobby Zarem was having a lunch for the photo book—Bob and I ended up
calling it Exposures— at 1:00 at Maxwell’s Plum. So I stayed uptown in the
morning and then met Elizinha Goncalves and Bob at the Mayfair House
and we walked over to Maxwell’s Plum and when we were half a block
away Bobby Zarem ran toward us and screamed that we were late and how
dare we and that people were going to leave. But it was actually good
timing that we got there late, because people were waiting to see us. It was
crowded, we had to work our way in. Karen Lerner was there filming for
the segment she’s doing on me for 20/20. She attached an invisible mike to
me so I had to remember to watch what I said. It was a press party and it
was basically everybody Bobby wanted to pay back for favors, I guess.
They had big AW initials in ice, three feet high, but it was melting. I
didn’t eat anything. Everybody got a free book, at least 100 were given out.
The waiters stole lots of books and then asked me to autograph them in the
kitchen, but I didn’t mind because they were nice.
Catherine was asking Steve Rubell personal questions, like, “You mean
you actually did take all that money?” but he didn’t seem to care. Now he’s
saying he made a deal with the IRS where he’ll be going to jail for two days
a week doing community service—teaching people how to make
discotheques on army bases for the soldiers. What a brilliant idea. Next
they’ll teach them how to be fairies and take drugs, right?
Later we went over in a cab to Studio 54. Halloween was so big this
year, people were really dressed up in the cars, outfits with lights blinking.
At Studio 54 the place was done up just great. You walked in and there were
ten doors on each side and you had to go through each one, and there were
mice in plastic running under your feet. And another room had a hole and
you looked in and there were eight midgets having dinner and you could
talk to them. They were eating chicken bones. And then in the next room
there were all these rubber gloves and some were real hands. It was better
than an art opening, better than a gallery show. There were some other
rooms I didn’t go into. It was all great. Jammed, wall-to-wall people,
beautiful, I don’t know where they came from.
And Esme the top model was there with Allen Finkelstein, but I
wouldn’t have recognized them if Tommy Pashun the florist hadn’t told me,
because they were dressed as Hasidic Jews, and they said that they were so
amazed, that everyone was being so mean to them. A makeup guy at one of
the Broadway plays had made them up. Dropped Catherine at 3:00 (cab
$3.50).
Thursday, November 1, 1979
Cabbed downtown to Ronnie’s art opening ($3). I talked to Larry Rivers.
His article on the fifties is on the cover of New York. All the sixties regulars
were there, like René Ricard who doesn’t say anything, he just runs around
saying things. And Roger Trudeau who said he was an interior decorator
now. Then Fred and I had to go to the German embassy dinner for Beuys.
At dinner I sat with a German girl who’d accosted me on the street
earlier for an autograph, so that was funny. We got there a little late and we
missed the speech. They said it’d been about excrement, and how Beuys
uses it so well.
We were in the papers for the Bobby Zarem thing, a lot of little mentions
in Jack Martin and Liz Smith and “Suzy.”
Monday, November 12, 1979
Halston had invited me to dinner but then Catherine called and said that
Steve Rubell and Ian Schrager wanted to take us to Pearl’s first. So I went
there. Steve told me that Liza’s pregnant and she’s going to get married but
that it was a big secret. We should have let Steve order because he gets
cranky. We ordered while he was in the bathroom, and then nobody ate
anything. Catherine had a slice of pork, she’s got her thin beautiful body
back again. I’m down to 132.
Then we left and we got into the car to Halston’s. Halston had dinner
ready. He took me aside and told me that Liza was pregnant but not to tell
anyone, that it was a big secret. Catherine was trying to make out with Ian.
And she was drunk, asking Steve again how much he really stole.
Tuesday, December 4, 1979
So tired after three weeks on the road with Bob and Fred to promote the
Exposures book. The tour began so chicly in Washington when I sat in
President Carter’s box at Kennedy Center but it wound up in the gutter on
Hollywood Boulevard in that B. Dalton’s bookstore that used to be
Pickwick Books. While I was signing there a woman with a knife wound in
her stomach came in screaming, “This isn’t Andy Warhol! I went to bed
with Andy Warhol and he’s 7’8, he can’t fit through doors, and he wouldn’t
be standing here like this in a bookshop because he’s too paranoid!”
(laughs) And that may actually be an accurate quote. And at Neiman-
Marcus in Dallas where they had a great party for us in their boiler room,
all the kids there said the book was “neat” and “cool.” And the Texas people
were all so gracious and considerate, they say things like, “It’s so kind of
you to come all this way to see us.” I wish I could talk like that—I can’t
think of those beautiful lines. Oh, and a big nice man in Dallas even insisted
on personally taking us to the discotheque afterwards because, he said, “I’ll
tell you what, you fellas will need some protection —it’s a pret-ty gay
atmosphere. Of course, I guess you might be used to it, coming from New
York City and all.” And we laughed and looked to make sure he was
kidding and he wasn’t.
Tuesday, December 18, 1979
Had a limo for the day. Picked up Paulette to go to Halston’s show. She was
stunning, all in a white fur coat. At Halston’s I was next to Martha Graham
who really looked old for the first time. I guess maybe it’s just that she
always wears makeup and didn’t have any on. The Daily News took a lot of
pictures of me with Liza. I told her that I didn’t know what to say about her
miscarriage but she said she was okay.
We had lunch at the office for a photographer friend of Alexander
Guest’s who was going to take pictures of Bob and me afterwards for
Penthouse. A girl made me and Bob up with black eyes and bleeding lips. It
looked good, real. Then they took us down to Avenue C and 4th Street to a
school. The whole area looks bombed out. And then the school let ten kids
out (laughs) to pose as kids who just mugged us. It was so cold. And a kid
yelled at me, “Don’t go to too many parties.” They said they were allowed
out of their typing classes. I don’t know exactly what kind of school it was
—they had karate classes there, too. The kids were cute. We posed against
real graffiti. And I mean, I couldn’t believe a school was letting kids out to
pose with pussy in Penthouse, and then I found out that they weren’t even
getting paid! And I told the guy in charge he was horrible for not paying
them and he got really funny about it but then they took down their names.
Then we went back to the office.
Wednesday, December 19, 1979
The ABC 20/20 camera crew was coming to the office to film. I worked
until 7:30. Then at home I glued myself together. Bob called and said he
was exhausted but he really wanted to go to the Alice Mason dinner, so he
picked me up and we walked to 72nd Street and Lexington. I was next to
Norris Church Mailer. I told her we were still interested in doing something
with her for Interview but she said she’d put on weight and that she really
liked eating better than staying thin for modeling. Then we got a cab to El
Morocco, Norris and Norman and Bob and me (cab $5). It was a party for
Margaux Hemingway’s engagement. I ran into Jamie Blandford there and
had a fight with him, I don’t know why, I just always do, I hope I didn’t
(laughs) offend him. And Mimi Trujillo was there. She was married to the
son of that dictator and she’s a fashion designer. Victor sees her stuff then
tells Halston about it—I mean, she does stuff like Halston, but she does it
sort of first.
Millie and Bill Kaiserman were there. I introduced Norris to them, but I
think I did it in a strange way, I guess I said, “This is Norris Church, she
wants free clothes.” But they should have good-looking people walking
around in their clothes for free. There were lots of funny young people, El
Morocco’s back on its way again.
Thursday, December 20, 1979
Cabbed to 47th Street ($3). I walked around to the office for the office
Christmas party. Then went home and got together. Went to Tom
Armstrong’s at 72nd and Park, and Leo Castelli was there, and Iris Love
and Robert Rosenblum who said he didn’t understand why everybody gave
my show at the Whitney a bad review. Bobo Le Gendre was there, and I
was mean to her because she’s so phoney baloney. She’s a friend of de
Antonio’s. She’s a carpet heiress. They had shepherd’s pie but I’d eaten
already.
Then I took John to Richard Weisman’s at U.N. Plaza. Ron Duguay was
there, and Rod Gilbert came without Judy, and Fred was there, and Whitney
Tower, and Averil who was going back to miniskirts, wearing one of her
mother’s, and she got a hole in it. Peter Beard was there, and Cheryl Tiegs,
and I think Duguay finally got hot for Catherine after he was looking at her
topless picture in the Exposures book. Vitas and the cute boy we
photographed with him in Paris were there, and John McEnroe. And just
when the party was getting good, John Reinhold dragged me into the closet
and got so serious. He was just wacko, saying I was his favorite friend and
that when I don’t call he goes crazy. I don’t know what he meant, he was
just wacko.
Catherine Oxenberg was there, and lots of stewardess-looking girls and
when girls get drunk they get obnoxious. I had a limo waiting, so Catherine
and I and a couple of the stewardesses got in it and we dropped Catherine,
and then me, and I tipped the driver ($40) and he took everyone else home.
And I missed Fred Mueller’s party and Eleanor Ward’s party and Keller
Donovan’s party and the Rolling Stone party.
Friday, December 21, 1979—New York—Vail,
Colorado
We got to Denver at 5:30. Catherine and I got drunk on the plane and had
fun with a lady who collects big jewelry who used to live in the Ritz
Towers. She lost a silver ring on the plane but she didn’t care about it
because it was just silver. She was on her way to Taos.
There was a kind of van waiting to take us to Vail. A beautiful Redcap
girl carried our heavy bags (tip $10).
Got to Jed’s house at 7:40. The altitude really got to me, I got terrible
chest pains. I think it’s because of when I was shot. It wasn’t bad in Denver
because Denver’s lower, and when I was in Mexico City once I felt it but
not this bad. The whole house looks like a big sauna. This is the house Jed
bought with Peter and Sandy Brant. It’s by Venturi. It’s all wood and simple
and clean. The second floor is bedrooms. The kitchen is on the third floor,
the living room on the fourth. The furniture is all Stickley.
We walked into town to the Left Bank restaurant (drinks $30, dinner
$200). Fran and Ray Stark were there, and Bob knows they’re Republican
so he told Kennedy jokes and he invited them over for cocktails Monday.
Ray’s high on Paul Morrissey, Paul’s writing a script for him. I signed the
restaurant guest book, and Betty and Gerald Ford were in it and Bob Hope,
and then we walked up the hill and it was just horrible, the walk, I felt so
light-headed and really really horrible.
Monday, December 24, 1979—Vail
Aurora cooked a ham and a turkey but nobody came to our cocktail party.
Mercedes Kellogg called and said she had a cold, and the Starks just didn’t
show.
Tuesday, December 25, 1979—Vail
The Fords shake hands with absolutely everybody. Betty Ford doesn’t look
as good as she did in the photos after her facelift, she just looks sort of the
same. But now she’s a blonde. Before she had brown hair, didn’t she? It’s a
sort of honey-blonde now. At first I thought it was Mrs. Nixon. Bob wanted
to meet them so badly, but he would shove me out first and I would shrink
back, so it never happened.
Passed out Interviews, there really were great places to do it. Three
people asked for my autograph. Everybody stares at me because I’m
wearing my wolf parka by Halston.
We went to a bar that shows ski movies, you drink beer and watch
skiers. Nobody came over and asked for our drink orders, so we didn’t
drink anything and just watched the movie and then left. We were having
dinner with Nan Kempner. I began reading Dress Gray and it had the right
names that sounded real. Like the main guy is called Ry.
Wednesday, December 26, 1979—Vail—New York
Got home just in time to catch Vincent still at the office, at 6:00. Rupert had
gone away for Christmas so he didn’t get much done. Talked to John
Reinhold and he suggested Trader Vic’s to discuss jewelry ideas. Got a cab,
thought it would be easier, but then the driver didn’t move, he said he was
stunned to have me, and he missed the light and I said, “Do you know
where you’re going?” and he said yes, to the Plaza on 59th and Fifth, but
then he missed 59th Street and at 57th Street I gave him $3 and got out
quick.
John was already there and then Curley arrived, above the weather, and
he wanted to go to Studio 54 around midnight, sort of early (cab $4). Then I
got nervous, he said there was a picture of me and Steve Rubell on a couch
in New York. At Studio 54 Bianca arrived with John Samuels who was
home from Harvard for the holidays. He seemed so in love—he’s taking her
to the sun for a few days.
Thursday, December 27, 1979
Oh, I’m trying to lose weight, and we’ve got a lot of cheese everywhere.
Gael Malkenson’s boyfriend imports it so she gets it for us half-price.
Ronnie and Gigi had had a big fight and she packed and left so he was in
a bad mood. They fought because he was buying her presents and she didn’t
have the money to buy him some and she got mad. She’s like a bad forties
movie.
We got sent a copy of Steven Gaines’s book, The Club, the “novel”
about Studio 54. And it has a chic Seventh Avenue designer named (laughs)
“Ellison” who works in the Olympic Tower and who has a Peruvian
boyfriend named “Raoul.” The names are so bad.
Friday, December 28, 1979
I walked around passing out Interviews and then I cabbed ($3) to 245 Park
Avenue for my meeting with Bob Denison to talk about investments. I
walked into the building and got the elevator to the twenty-seventh floor,
the door opened and I smelled something burning. I walked into Bob’s
office and he was running around trying to find out if what was burning was
one of his machines. Then the secretary came running in and said the
building was on fire, that we should leave.
Bob wanted to take the elevator, but I said no, to take the stairs. The exit
door was locked. Just like in Towering Inferno. But we found another exit
that wasn’t locked and went into the staircase. People said the fire was on
the thirty-fifth floor. At the twenty-sixth floor more people got on the
stairway and on the twenty-fifth more got on and the twenty-fourth and
every floor was the same story. So it was getting slower and slower because
there were so many people being added. But nobody panicked because we
knew the fire was above us. A couple of people almost fainted, though.
When we reached the bottom there were hundreds of people on the street.
Bob Denison and I went over to have our meeting at the Trattoria. And I
just couldn’t believe the way I’d walked into the building and the elevator
people just let me go up there when they already knew there was a fire!
They must have known by then! And I could have walked onto the blazing
floor. Those elevator people just stand around like morons.
The man at the Trattoria came over and said that I always used to come
there a lot, and what happened to me. I was too nervous to really eat. I just
had coffee.
Saturday, December 29, 1979
Bianca called and Suzie Frankfurt called, but I couldn’t remember their
numbers so I didn’t call them back. I should really keep an address book.
And then I had a glass of wine or so, and I watched a little TV, and I was
tired so I fell asleep.
Monday, December 31, 1979
I decided to make it easy and just go to Halston’s for New Year’s Eve. I
wrapped gifts for Jade. Went over at 10:00. It was small there, black tie.
Bob Denison and Jane Holzer were there, so I guess they’ve made up.
Nancy North and Bill Dugan. Victor called from California and said he was
having a good time out there. When the New Year came in we did kisses
and ate. Dr. Giller was there. It was just so nice. Jade loved all the presents I
brought her. Steve Rubell was there. Then at 3:00 Bianca wanted to go to
Woody Allen’s party at Harkness House on 75th. John Samuels had a car
and double-parked.
Woody’s was the best party, wall-to-wall famous people, we should have
gone earlier. Mia Farrow is so charming and such a beauty. Bobby De Niro
was there and he’s so fat. Really really fat. I know he gained weight for the
boxing movie, but wouldn’t it be funny if he could never lose it? He looks
so ugly. He must be crazy, because he’s really fat.
Mick came in with Jerry, and Bianca ran over and was charming. I don’t
know how she did it but she got it over with, she broke the ice, they talked
for about half an hour. She wanted to get Jerry nervous, which she did.
Mick shaved off his beard so he looks really good.
We went over to Studio 54 and the look was “ice.” Ice wall-to-wall and
dripping down the walls. Then Steve said, “Let’s go down to the basement,”
so we did. He just about said, “Anybody have any cocaine?” He wanted it
to be like the good old days. It was so filthy down there, with the garbage
and everything. Winnie was there, without Tom Sullivan—she said he’s in
Hawaii.
Then upstairs Duguay and the other hockey guy came in and I was
trying to introduce them to Marina Schiano, but they said their real
girlfriends were there, from Minnesota or Indianapolis or something, so
they couldn’t do anything. Then it was 6 A.M. and Marina and I left, and
there was a riot outside, people still wanting to get in. Jack Hofsiss who
directed Elephant Man went by in a limo and gave us a ride, there were
about twenty boys in it. And I got out at Marina’s, because I knew if I
stayed in it they’d invite me to go with them, and I wanted to get up and go
to work.
Marina invited me up for pizza and I went. I always hear that she gets
the best food from all over the city, that she has the people who work for
her bring salami from Brooklyn and pizza from Queens and things like that,
so I wanted to try it out. It was sort of good, a really cheap kind of pizza, all
dough and a little ketchup and a little cheese. Like the cheese doesn’t come
away when you eat it, there’s not much. And when I was there I noticed that
she had a pile of food on the stove, and she said it was for good luck, you’re
supposed to have it piled on the stove on New Year’s. So I was there and we
talked, and she was asking me about my house, and I told her how much it
cost to run it, and she felt that I was being “real” and that she’d really gotten
something out of me and that this meant we were friends or something, I
don’t know. I was waiting for it to get light out, and it never did. I mean, it
was 6:30 and it was still dark, and I thought the sun came up at 6:00, but I
guess that last year when I left and it was light out it was 7:00, not 6:00.
Tuesday, January 1, 1980
Got up late, at 11:00, but I hadn’t drunk so it wasn’t so bad. I glued myself
and got Rupert on the phone. He said he’d come in to work at 12:00.
I brought Interviews with me but I had a hard time passing them out
because nobody was around. Got to the office and worked for three or four
hours, and then went down to Heiner Friedrich’s gallery where they were
doing a repeat of Walter de Maria’s Dirt show (cab $3). Robert Rosenblum
was there with his new baby and he had it with a cloth around it. It was the
same show, but with new black dirt filling the gallery up.
Later, sat around at home and worked. Marina called and said to come
over and have the food that was piled on her stove the night before, gallons
and gallons. So I did, and it was just the kind of food I wanted—parsnips
and leeks and things like that. Walked over there. John Bowes-Lyons was
there, I brought a present for him because the other night he’d said that he
was bringing one for me, but he must have just done that so I’d bring him
something, because he just had an old tie for me, he’s so terrible.
Wednesday, January 2, 1980
Gigi came by 860 and she did a really good job with the makeup on me, but
the wig she got wasn’t good. This is for the Whitney poster. Ronnie was out
sick. Gigi told me that she’s pregnant and that if Ronnie wants the baby
she’ll stay in New York and they’ll have it, but if he doesn’t she’ll get a
divorce and leave.
Whitney Tower called and said that Kenneth Anger threw paint at Fred’s
door up on 89th and Lex again. He must think I still live there—he’s been
saying I’m the Devil or something, I don’t know what his problem is.
Thursday, January 3, 1980
I wandered around, passing out Interviews (cab $3.50, art supplies $54.88).
Cabbed to Union Square and then walked to office. Lunch was for Lewis
Allen the producer and somebody who works with him, and I’d invited
Princess Pignatelli and her husband when we’d run into them at Mr.
Chow’s. And Bianca called and said she was coming down with John
Samuels to meet Lewis Allen.
Lewis Allen was seeing me because he wants to produce a Broadway
“evening” with me, like an “evening” with the Beatles, you know? One
where I sit and read from the Philosophy book. In the sixties Lewis Allen
tried to buy the rights to Clockwork Orange for us to make into a movie. He
produced Annie and things, and his wife is Jay Presson Allen, she writes
screenplays like Funny Lady.
Friday, January 4, 1980
Stayed uptown because I was taking Bianca to meet my agent Joan Hyler,
who’s also John Samuels’s agent—the four of us for lunch at the Russian
Tea Room. I picked up Bianca and we cabbed over ($3). The Weissberger
guy was there with Anita Loos, Maureen Stapleton, and Imogene Coca, and
that was thrilling, seeing queens of comedy. Frank Perry was there, a little
fatter. Oh, and John doesn’t use the name Samuels. He’s “John Stockwell”
now—Stockwell’s his middle name and that’s what he’s decided to use for
his acting career. It was funny to hear him being introduced to people that
way. And I didn’t recognize that it was John in the new Armani ad. They
saw him in Interview and asked him to be in their ad.
And Joan told me she had a part for me in The Fan—a walk-on in the
party scene. She’s a camp. She said she’s a good agent because she knows
what she wants and makes quick decisions. I guess people really act like
what they are—agents act like agents and actors act like actors … Oh but I
guess artists act like artists.
I went to Union Square (cab $3). I worked all afternoon with Rupert.
Worked till 8:00. It was snowing and it was startling to see snow, and it was
pretty, it was nice, sticking.
Saturday, January 5, 1980
Worked all afternoon until 6:00 on the German ladies and some
backgrounds and the Jewish Geniuses. John Samuels invited us to the ballet
with his father who’s chairman of the board at City Center. Got to the
theater and we had good seats in the grand tier or the dress circle. Peter
Martins danced and he was good. Bought drinks at intermission ($20). Mr.
Samuels took us backstage and the girl who didn’t marry Balanchine was
there. What’s her name? Shelly? Shirley? Suzy? It was fun.
Went to the Russian Tea Room for dinner ($210).
Monday, January 7, 1980
Walked over to Doc Cox’s for my yearly checkup. Took some Interviews
with me for the reception room. Talked to Rosemary. She and Doc Cox
were fighting while she took my blood, she was complaining that she
wanted a career change but that she was too old to train to be a brain
specialist. I told her she should go into fashion, do makeup. I was there till
2:00, and then I wandered around with some Interviews for a while. Cabbed
to Union Square ($5) and walked to office.
Got the newspapers. The Russians are invading Afghanistan.
Tuesday, January 8, 1980
Suzie Frankfurt came down with Gianni Versace, and Jane Forth was there
to do the makeup on him. I photographed him for an hour. A German from
Stern called and I gave him a phone interview. Bianca just dropped John
Samuels and he’s crushed.
Wednesday, January 9, 1980
I was dropping Catherine off after dinner and we saw two limousines out in
front of Halston’s, so we decided to crash. Inside it was just Steve Rubell
with a cold, Halston with a cold, and Bianca with a cold. They were going
to Studio 54 and they made us come with them.
Studio 54 was empty, but fun. Sly Stallone was there, looking around the
place for how to shoot a movie there. Susan Anton wasn’t with him, he was
after Bianca and it seemed like they were going to go fuck in the basement.
Anyway, they disappeared, we couldn’t find them. Stallone looks good, he’s
lost weight and he looks really handsome.
Friday, January 11, 1980
Thomas Ammann had invited us to La Grenouille for a 10:00 dinner. Bianca
was supposed to meet us there, but she never came, and Mary Richardson
had called and I guess was hinting that she wanted me to invite John
Samuels, but I didn’t get the hint, she should have just said something. It
was confusing, everyone was playing different games.
Then Catherine arrived with our art dealer Heiner Bastion. She’d taken
him to the tennis matches for me, and when they came in I just accidentally
said something like she hadn’t had the good seats for him, and she was
upset and actually cried a little, saying, “I took your friend to the matches
and now you’re ruining his whole evening saying I didn’t have good seats.”
But I think she was just upset because McEnroe lost.
Saturday, January 12, 1980
Ran into Peter Beard and Cheryl Tiegs on the way to Le Club and they gave
me a ride. Cheryl was in a cast, she’d fallen down in Montauk, and I bet
Peter pushed her. I had a fight with Peter in the car—it was his car—we
were talking and he said that “everything is coming down.” And I said that
Cheryl should look more glamorous and beautiful when she goes out if
she’s going to be the number-one top beauty in the world. She looked good,
but plain. She wears the worst, funny clothes.
Sunday, January 13, 1980
Got up early, dead tired. Catherine called and wanted to go to the matches
but I was tired and they make me too nervous. Went to church.
I took a gallbladder pill with wine, you’re supposed to take it with water,
and I wasn’t supposed to eat anything for twenty hours before going to the
doctor, which I was doing at 9:00 on Monday morning.
Monday, January 14, 1980
Up at 8:00 to glue myself for my appointment with Doc Cox. Went over
there. He and Rosemary were fighting again. The waiting room was rich
ladies like Dorothy Hammerstein. The fat girl gave me my X-ray but she
couldn’t find the gallstones. So I took the white stuff and sat around and
waited. I took a new breathing test where you blow in a container that goes
around in a circle. I was finished by 11:00 (cab $4). Went to the office to
meet with David and Sam Aaron who own Sherry-Lehmann, the liquor
store. They want a portrait of a bottle of wine.
Then two guys from the IRS came in, and they were really horrible,
screaming and carrying on and saying they wanted to see me, and I hid in
Fred’s office area. There was a tall one who was really horrible and a short
one who said he liked my paintings, telling me how good they were. But the
tall one was terrible and rude. We called Bob Montgomery our lawyer, who
was coming down for a 5:00 meeting. He said not to talk to them.
By this time they said that what they were after was Rupert Smith. Fred
said I still shouldn’t talk to them. The little one was trying to get me to say
something. Finally they gave me a summons and left. They just want
records, cancelled checks or something. They were rude and awful, though.
And Bob Montgomery cancelled and rescheduled.
Tuesday, January 15, 1980
Lewis Allen came by to talk about the musical—he wants to have puppets
on stage with a recording of my voice saying things from one of the books
—the Philosophy book or Popism.
Interviewed Ron Duguay for three hours and then we brought him to
Halston’s for a dinner for Martha Graham. Victor is back living at the house
now, I think he sold his loft. Steve Rubell was there, and they were
supposed to sentence him, but they postponed it, he said, because they want
him to testify in court that Hamilton Jordan was at Studio 54 taking coke
and he said he wouldn’t, and Halston said, “But you already said it on TV,”
and Steve said, “Yeah, but that’s not the same as saying it on a Bible,” and I
mean, I agree—it’s not.
Thursday, January 17, 1980
Interview gave a screening of American Gigolo at the Gulf + Western
building (cab $4.50). Richard Gere was really good and Lauren Hutton was
great. She’s a senator’s wife who gives the hustler his murder alibi. Richard
Gere has a sex scene where you see him completely nude. Nando did the art
direction and at the end of the movie there’s a scene where a pimp is being
thrown off a balcony by Richard Gere and you see my three posters in the
background, the Torsos. The scene is played against them.
After the movie I dropped Catherine, but right when I did, Halston’s
limo pulled up and he and Bianca said they were going to Studio 54 for
Steve Rubell’s farewell party before his sentencing, so my cab followed
their limo ($3.50). When we got there we stood around, and they were
taking pictures. Halston was smart, he disappeared, but I didn’t realize what
was going on. It was really crowded and it was early. I dropped Catherine
off at 2:00. Somebody said that they’d put locks on Steve’s safety-deposit
boxes.
Friday, January 18, 1980
Steve and Ian got three and a half years each.
Monday, January 21, 1980
I tried to find new spaces in the back of 860 for Interview so they can
expand their office space. Bob says they need more because it’s hard to lie
to advertisers when other people are listening. But I don’t think that’s
what’s hard to do with other people listening. I think what it’s hard to do
with other people listening is make personal phone calls.
Rupert came by and he’d made the Shadows two inches smaller than I’d
said to—he just decided he would—and he had no right to do that and I
screamed at him and now the stretchers have to be smaller.
Tuesday, January 22, 1980
Worked in the back on the Beuys portrait. Ronnie was going around saying
that he hated himself and that he was going to go with Brigid to the A.A.
meeting on Park Avenue that she was going to. And Gigi called and said she
wants a divorce. She told him that she’d had an abortion. That’s what she
told him, but you can’t tell with these girls. Who knows if she was ever
really pregnant.
Thursday, January 24, 1980
Victor Bockris came over with William Burroughs. I introduced Bianca to
William Burroughs. Bianca’s hair is really short now, like a crewcut, it
looks terrible. Jade was painting in the back with me and she sat on her first
painting. I gave her some diamond dust to throw on the canvas.
Friday, January 25, 1980
Marina Schiano called about the dinner Mica Ertegun was giving that night.
It got complicated because Bianca wanted to come but at first she didn’t
want to come if Mick was going to be there and then she did want to come
if Mick was going to be there—it was complicated.
Glued myself together. Catherine said we could go to Halston’s and go
from there. He had a limo. Bianca got a call in the middle of getting ready
from some friend of hers who said that on cable channel C they were doing
my astrology chart, so we turned it on and it was a like a maharajah doing
my chart and saying funny things from newspaper clippings, and it was so
weird. He looked like Jerry Colonna. Or like Gene Shalit, but Indian. I
didn’t want to watch it, it was too weird. There he was doing my chart with
two girls discussing it, it was really nutty.
Then we went to the Erteguns’ and it was great. Mick was there. Jerry’s
out of town. And it was like he and Bianca were courting. They were
together flirting. Bianca was touching him, it was exciting. Bianca had
called Bob and made him get John Samuels invited for after dinner, to get
Mick jealous, I guess, but Mick was being so nice to her that when John
Samuels called there, she told him he couldn’t come because Mick was
there and it would get “complicated.”
Then we went back to Halston’s house and Bob threw up in Halston’s
sink, he’d had too much to drink. Then Bianca said she’d take him home,
and after an hour she still wasn’t back. So we went out to see where the car
was, and we couldn’t believe our eyes—the driver was getting out of the
back of the limousine, and about half a minute later, Bianca got out. And
she looked dazed. I mean, she could have been asleep. But was she giving
him a blow job? Was he going down on her? Was he trying to rob her? We
didn’t know. Barbara had said that Bianca probably went to see Mick who’d
left before her. But it was too weird. We were stunned. And the driver
wasn’t good-looking or anything, so we just couldn’t figure it out.
Saturday, January 26, 1980
John Samuels is going to California, he was upset because Bianca told him
not to come and pick her up the night before. Bianca said she might go back
to London.
I dropped Rupert (cab $3.50). I glued myself together and called “Suzy,”
the columnist—Aileen Mehle—and asked if she wanted to walk to the
Metropolitan Club, and she said, “Walk? What do you mean, ‘walk’?” And
I didn’t have a car, so I went out and hunted for a cab and it was hard to get
one. Then when I got to her building I had my contacts in, so I couldn’t see
which bell to ring (cab $5). We were going to what used to be called the
Diamond Ball until one of the ladies coming home from it got robbed of her
diamonds, so now it’s called the Winter Party. It’s for some kind of
international education for kids, I think—a benefit. It was so many old
fogies, “Suzy” said she hadn’t been to it in five years and that now she
knew why.
Frolic Weymouth from the Brandywine Museum was there with a lady
who looked just like all those D.A.R. ladies. “Suzy” said she really needed
a drink. The old fogies were coming over and saying who’d just died. That
day. We were at a table with the Zilkhas and an ambassador from Turkey.
Then “Suzy” wanted to leave. She agreed to walk home. She said that I had
to come and have Chinese vodka with her. Someday.
Monday, January 28, 1980
Got up, it was a nice cold New York day. I did my work at home, made calls
on the phone (cab $4). Walked over to the office. It looks like the
construction on the “Underground” discotheque is almost finished. (laughs)
The Underground, I’m not kidding, that’s what they’re calling it. They’re
making it look like a fortress. They’re putting in the big air-conditioning
machines. I hear it’s the same people who had Infinity which burned to the
ground.
I sent “Suzy” some flowers for being my date the other night.
Wednesday, January 30, 1980
Went to Joanne Winship’s for dinner (cab $2). Went to 417 Park Avenue, a
building I didn’t even know was there. It’s the only building below 57th
Street on Park where people still live now, it’s on the corner of 55 th.
Patrice Munsel was singing at the piano with a vice-president from
Benton & Bowles. She wore an outrageous hat and I’ve never seen anything
like it—like two big Mickey Mouse ears. Mary McFadden was there with a
boyfriend, a German boy who was just so good-looking. The big star of the
evening was Polly Bergen, she lives in New York again, and we did the
running routine about Barry Landau of “How’s your friend?” “I thought he
was your friend.” “He’s not my friend, I thought he was your friend.”
Barry’s been calling the office but they tell him automatically that I’m out.
And Joanne Winship has that tough society voice that just drives you up
the wall! She talks nonstop and it makes you crazy. And Mr. Winship works
for Associated Press. And he looks like Mr. Milquetoast, he has that shape
and he’s so calm. I went to this dinner because I just really wanted to
because Joanne’s so nutty that I knew I would love it.
Thursday, January 31, 1980
Picked up Ina Ginsburg to go with her and her son Mark to see A Lady from
Dubuque, the new Edward Albee play opening with Irene Worth. The play
is three couples, arguing a lot. Irene was really good, but somehow she just
can’t get a big hit. One of the best lines in the play was when somebody
says, “How can you have that Jasper Johns on the wall?” and the big black
guy says, “It’s better than having a crappy Andy Warhol,” and everybody
turned around to look at me.
Friday, February 1, 1980
I was going to Diane Von Furstenberg’s birthday party for Barry Diller. I’d
invited Catherine, and we were picking up Truman, too. He’s like a
different person now, he’s very distant, not friendly. He said he’d have
something for Interview’s April issue. I tried to tape him, but he didn’t have
anything to say. It’s strange, he’s like one of those people from outer space
—the body snatchers—because it’s the same person, but it’s not the same
person. And he’s looking older, he either gained weight or lost it or
something, but he isn’t thinking about the way he looks. I can’t figure it out.
We got to Diane Von Furstenberg’s. Diana Ross was there, she looked
great. Diana Vreeland was there, too, and Diana—she’s getting too tough to
talk to.
Richard Gere was there, and everyone was talking about the Vincent
Canby putdown of American Gigolo in the Times. But he said he was
cheered up because there were lines around the block, so maybe it’ll be a
hit.
Paul Schrader was there, and Catherine got a thing for him and stayed
after I left, but then it turned out she only stayed just a little bit, so nothing
happened with that. Berry and Tony Perkins were there. Mr. and Mrs. Helen
Gurley Brown were there and she got Truman into a corner. He left the
party early, he said he was (laughs) tired of people telling him their
personal lives.
Monday, February 4, 1980
I had to rush down to the office at 11:30. Jean Kennedy Smith was going to
be there with Kerry Kennedy to pick out Ted Kennedy campaign posters
(cab $4). Had to be photographed, they had the whole press there.
Sunday, February 10, 1980—Zurich
At the Dolder Grand Hotel Bruno Bischofberger woke us up at 11:30. He
was waiting to take Fred and me to my first portrait job. We went to this
small little house—it was like going into some Lower East Side house—and
there was a mother and three children and Fred said one of them was really
cute, but I didn’t notice. They had corduroy pants on and torn shirts. Fred
asked for orange juice and they gave him canned orange juice. The mother
was just a little mother. The furniture was old and worn. There was not one
thing in the place that looked rich. It looked so poor I just wanted to give
them the portrait free. They were very nice but I just couldn’t believe they
could afford this. We were all stunned, but Bruno was saying you can’t tell
about the Swiss, the Swiss hide all their money.
Monday, February 11, 1980—Zurich
Slept late and then Thomas Ammann woke me up to do a portrait. A
beautiful wife with a fat husband. I said she didn’t need makeup. She was
easy to do because she was a raving beauty. Her husband tells her she’s ugly
—Thomas says that’s how Swiss people treat their wives because they
never want them to get too secure. We gave them a book and an Interview
and we sent out the film. It’s so hard to find anything but SX-70 film here,
they’re phasing the other out. We bought English papers which I paid for
($5).
We had lunch downstairs in the restaurant with Loulou de la Falaise
Klossowski and her husband Thadée and Thomas. We signed for it. The
food was good. The place was so beautiful with a view of the lake and the
mountains. We were the only people there and the sun was beating through
the window on our backs. It’d been hailing in the morning. The weather has
been so strange. Loulou told us that YSL really was such a genius that he
just can’t take it, he has to take a million pills and the whole office gets so
depressed when he’s depressed except for her. She said she acts happy no
matter what. That’s why she gets sick, because she’s always trying to act
happy and it’s really a lot of stress on her liver. She hasn’t had a drink in a
year and a quarter but she doesn’t think cocaine is bad. I do, though. We
talked about her stepfather, John McKendry. She said he had so many
boyfriends. His idea of marrying Maxime was fantasizing that her son
Alexis was going to live at home with them and that he could have an affair
with him. But the son immediately got married and moved to Wales. Then
he envisioned Loulou being there bringing home pretty boys every minute
that he could fuck. And actually he did steal her boys.
Loulou said John McKendry was actually killing himself slowly because
he’d always fantasized how great and romantic and wonderful and literary
the aristocracy must be. Then when he met them, and married a countess—
her mother—and got to meet Jackie O. and people like that every day
through his job at the Met, he realized they were just normal dumb people
like everybody else. There was nothing left for him to live for. Of course I
think that Maxime just drove him crazy. I couldn’t say that to Loulou,
though. Then we took a cab downtown ($10.50).
Thursday, February 14, 1980—Dusseldorf
We had to take Hans Mayer’s car and drive out to the country to a small
town to photograph a German butcher. His company is called Herta, it’s one
of the biggest sausage companies in Germany. He was a cute guy. He had
this interesting building. You could see all the employees. He had my Pig
on the wall. Junk everywhere. A lot of toys. A lot of stuffed cows, stuffed
pigs. Pigs, pigs, pigs all over the place. And there was art. There were funny
things hanging from the ceiling. There were water-dripping paintings. He
buys a lot of art, he said they sell more sausages that way because the
people are very happy. Then he gave us a white smock and white hat. We
went through and watched the ladies make the sausages. It was really fun.
You could smell the sauerkraut cooking, but they didn’t give us any hot
dogs there. He had the whole portfolio of Picasso that I did the Picasso print
of Paloma in. We looked at that, then we had to look at more pigs and more
salamis and more hams and more ham art.
Then we took Polaroids for the portrait and had some tea. And his wife
came by. They didn’t offer us lunch. Then all of a sudden he asked us if
we’d like to try one of his hot dogs. They cooked some up and we had two
apiece. One white one and one black one. They were really good. We had
them with mustard. He said he had to go have lunch back at the lunch room.
We had to go off without lunch which we thought was really strange. We
got in the car and drove to a restaurant in a place called Bottrop.
As soon as we came in they told us it was this crazy day where all the
women chase the men. They cut off your ties. But since we knew that was
happening—we saw these drunken ladies running around—we took our ties
off and hid them in our pockets. But then they got my shirt tail and they cut
it off and it was my good shirt and I was so mad. These women were really
bullies. We got back in the car and drove back to Hans’s gallery. I was so
tired, and I was really upset about my shirt.
Monday, February 18, 1980—New York
I was jetlagged and overslept. I made the kids come in to work on the
holiday because they’d been loafing for two weeks while I was gone, but it
turned out the building wasn’t open and the heat wasn’t on. And the
discotheque on the ground floor is still being built, they had the nerve to
send me an invitation to the opening. They broke the elevator and it wasn’t
working, and I think the no heat is something to do with them, too.
Ronnie’s trying to memorize his big role in the Walter Steding
extravaganza performance coming up soon somewhere downtown, and
since I’m Walter’s manager, I should find out where it is.
It was great to be back. I thought it’d be forty degrees, but it turned out
to be still twenty. I wandered around and passed out Interviews, then got a
cab to Union Square ($3.50). The heat finally came up in the front, but it
was still cold in the back. Brigid was working on the same piece of paper
she was working on when I left. I mean, she thought I wouldn’t recognize
it?
And I just don’t know where to paint anymore now that Interview has
taken over my old room. David who works for Interview was finished
painting it ($50 to David for paint).
Tuesday, February 19, 1980
I got up before 9:00 to watch the Today Show and try to figure out why
Gene Shalit hasn’t used the thing he did on me. He’ll use it after I die, he’ll
say, “I spoke with Andy Warhol in 1980 and here is that clip.” I must be a
really terrible guest. I mean, I must be too weird for TV because it’s always
the same thing—they never know what to do with it. Well, the 20/20 thing
that Karen Lerner shot during the Exposures tour is supposed to be on next
week. The twenty-eighth.
We had office pizza lunch ($5).
Oh, and this guy from New York called about the first part of Popism
that they’re running on the cover. Wouldn’t it be great if the book was a big
hit and we didn’t have to work to promote it?
Ron Feldman came down and we looked at the Ten Jews. It’s really such
a good idea to do that, they’re going to sell. And all the Germans want
portraits. Maybe because we have a good person selling there, Hans Mayer.
How come we don’t get many American portraits?
And I forgot to say that when I was walking along University Place a kid
stuck his head out of a car window and said, “Aren’t boys cuter in cars?”
Thursday, February 21, 1980
Did I ever say that a couple of weeks ago Bianca asked us about the night
she gave Bob a ride home from Halston’s after he threw up in the sink? Bob
was sort of shocked that she would bring it up. This is the night we saw the
chauffeur getting out of the back part of the limo. Bob said he told her,
“Well, Bianca, you just took me home. Everyone called me up the next
morning and said how it was nice of you to stay with me for an hour and a
half. I said you hadn’t been with me. They told me they found you and the
chauffeur in the back seat together.” She said that she just passed out after
she dropped Bob off because Mick had given her three vodkas in a row at
the Erteguns’ house and that she got so excited at seeing him there that the
vodkas just made her black out. She said that the chauffeur was in the back
with her really just trying to wake her up. And Bianca told me she was
never jealous of Jerry, that she knows Mick is with Jerry because he’s into a
real sex trip right now. And I said, “Well, Jerry told us that she gives Mick a
blow job before she lets him out of the house,” and Bianca said, “Why
didn’t you put that in her interview?” I said, “Because you were mad
enough at us for putting her in Interview in the first place, let alone if we
had her talking about sex with Mick.” Bianca said she wouldn’t care, she
said the only girlfriend of Mick’s she ever got jealous of was Carly Simon,
because Carly Simon is intelligent and has the look Mick likes—she looks
like Mick and Bianca.
Richard Weisman asked me if I wanted to meet Stallone and have lunch
with him on Friday on the set of his movie. He said Stallone may want his
portrait done.
Some Japanese journalist came by. He’d gone with us in Japan from
Tokyo to Kyoto, copying me by taping the trip, but nothing was said
(laughs). The Japanese Warhol. So he was in town and I thought I would
give him some material to write about since his last time with us wasn’t
much, so I took him with me and we went to Madison Square Garden to the
antique show (cab $3). And in the cab I said, “Where’s your tape recorder?”
and he pulled it out of his bag—it was the only thing in the bag, this tape
recorder running—but it turned out that it was running slow and the
batteries were no good, and he was just crushed, he couldn’t believe it and
he said, “Oh Jesus Christ, oh Jesus, oh Christ, oh Jesus, oh God, oh Christ,”
and I said, “Well, there’s your interview.” But it was sad, he felt so bad, and
I said, “Oh, you can remember.” Anyway, we got to Madison Square
Garden and it was really great, I couldn’t believe all the junk (tickets were 2
x $4 = $8). Ran into Tony Bill.
Friday, February 22, 1980
Richard Weisman called and said lunch with Stallone was on for 12:30.
Oh, and I forgot to say that Truman called. He said that he was hit by a
fat skier when he was walking across a ski slope in Switzerland. He
sounded more like his old self. I guess he’s in a good mood because Lester
gave him $450,000 for his thing from Interview, “Hand-Carved Coffins.”
We don’t get anything out of it, though.
We went to where Stallone was shooting on First Avenue, they had about
300 extras. The movie’s called Hawks, I think, and Martin Poll is the
producer, he’s the one who took Stallone to my Whitney portrait show.
Martin and his wife were there. They had huge crowds there. The set
decorator came over and said that he’d been the set decorator on Bad.
We went to a restaurant near there. I guess they sent one person out all
morning to look for a quiet place for the director to have lunch. It was
Richard and Martin Poll and his wife and Stallone and me. Stallone is so
cute, so adorable. I guess he’s lost sixty pounds. He’s sexy. All the stars
usually think they should have their portraits done free, though. He’s
intelligent, he’s taken over directorship of the movie and now he’s in
trouble because the union has a film of him saying, “Lights, action!” It’s
going before a board. Stallone was telling stories about how much trouble
he’s had with the union, how there’s this little Irish guy that he just wants to
beat up so badly. He said he had this one shot all set up, everybody was in
costume and makeup with blood and everything for a fight scene and it was
snowing, just perfectly and they said, “Okay, stop, everybody break for
dinner,” and he said he practically got down on his knees pleading, “Please,
just let’s get this one shot, please, I’m a fellow worker, please, I’m Rocky!”
and they wouldn’t let him. They broke for dinner and then he had to start all
over again.
I said to him how could he go and tell the papers the truth—that he
wasn’t having an affair with Bianca. I told him he should have said he was,
that he should have gone for the glamour. He said he and Bianca were “just
breaking each other’s balls.” I don’t know what that means. He told us that
he’d gone over to pick her up and she was wheezing and had a cold and she
looked so horrible that the romance fell apart right there. But he probably
doesn’t like Latin types, I think he likes big blondes. His manager loved us
because Interview had just done a story on his only other client, Ray
Sharkey. Then we left (cab $3).
Afterwards Martin Poll’s wife called, she said she was calling for a favor
to Stallone and wanted a discount, but I mean, he’s so rich.
Monday, February 25, 1980
I picked up a couple of fans in the morning. One said he wrote in for me in
the last presidential election.
I ordered some Popism books from Harcourt Brace, they make good
presents. I worked all afternoon waiting for Philippa de Menil and Heiner
Friedrich to come to dinner. They wanted to have a candlelight dinner at
860, they said. I can’t figure them out, they’re strange, they don’t like to go
out. We’re trying to sell them some new stuff. Rupert brought some prints
by. Heiner and Philippa came. I showed them the work. Robyn brought
food from 65 Irving and put it in the stove. He stayed on to be the butler.
Philippa doesn’t eat anything, but at this dinner she ate everything, so either
she’s nervous when she’s out at restaurants and doesn’t eat or she was
nervous at 860 and did eat or else she was just hungry for the first time. I
can’t figure it out. She even ate two pieces of banana pie. She was fun.
Robyn got a good assortment.
They asked why we didn’t come to La Monte Young’s concert, their Dia
Foundation supports him. I didn’t tell them that I just couldn’t face hearing
one note. Heiner and Philippa are just back from Turkey. Oh, and they sent
the whole Whirling Dervishes to Dr. Giller for acupuncture. All of them.
They said they still haven’t found a good building for a Warhol museum.
The Dia Foundation is going to make one. The owner of the red building
next door to us wants $300,000 just to rent.
Wednesday, February 27, 1980
Truman called the other day and said he wouldn’t be giving in any more
articles. He said it was because he was going to give us Answered Prayers
when it was finished in October. I told Bob he was just lying. He’s a
different person now, Truman, he’s dropped us and I can’t figure out why.
At the office Jill Fuller called and said she’d rented the helicopter to take
us out to the Nassau Coliseum to see Pink Floyd, they’re friends of hers. I
called Catherine who’s working for Richard Weisman now and she got
excited about the helicopter so I got my courage up and thought it might be
fun.
And the guy downstairs said the disco is opening on Thursday night and
he was leaving my name at the door. They turned the music on yesterday
and it was so loud, everything was just shaking, and I could hear them
through the elevator shaft screaming, “Louder, louder!” and it was just so
loud already you couldn’t believe it.
Picked up Catherine (cab $4). Went to Jill’s. Jill gave us a bottle of
champagne and we took a cab to get the helicopter (cab $3). It was a
beautiful beautiful ride, we drank the champagne. Four limos were waiting.
Then they started the show and this show is so complicated and
expensive that they’re only able to do it in California, New York, and
London. It’s big statues like the Macy’s parade.
Thursday, February 28, 1980
Picked up Catherine, cabbed to Harry Bailey’s on East 72nd Street ($2). It
used to be George Gershwin’s apartment. Barbara Rose was there with her
husband, the “Hound Dog” guy, Jerry Leiber, and she’s so horrible. She’s
the worst person, she comes over and says things like, “Oh, I love your new
writing style that you didn’t write.” I mean, what makes people do things
like that? They must be sick. She was just the worst-dressed woman there,
she looked so awful. I should have said to her, “I love your clothes.” I’ve
got to start thinking faster. I don’t know why Harry would want to have
dinner with Barbara Rose unless he thought she knew what art he should be
buying.
Friday, February 29, 1980
We had Toiny Castelli and her assistant and Iolas and Brooks and Adriana
Jackson at the office for lunch. Toiny wants to give me a print show. And
Iolas is opening a new gallery.
Studio 54 lost its liquor license—they had pictures in the paper of
Sylvester Stallone getting the last drink from the bar—and Steve’s other
restaurants on Long Island lost theirs, too.
Saturday, March 1, 1980
Victor Bockris called and said that the dinner with Mick Jagger at William
Burroughs’s was on. Victor’s doing a book on Burroughs. Decided to stay at
the office and not go home. The driver passed 222 Bowery, he was going
too fast (cab $3).
We went upstairs and I hadn’t been there since 1963 or 1962. It used to
be the locker room of a gymnasium. There’s no windows. It’s all white and
neat and it looks like sculpture all over, the way the pipes are. Bill sleeps in
another room, on the floor. I don’t think he’s a good writer. I mean, he
wrote that one good book, Naked Lunch, but now it’s like he lives in the
past.
A girl who was there—Marcia was maybe her name—said she’s been
photographing Kenneth Anger at his place on 94th Street. I told her not to
mention my name or he might beat her up, that he thinks I’m the Devil. She
said the apartment is all red, and he has everybody’s picture up and he puts
everybody down. Bill was asking Mick about the “drug culture” and the
“revolution” and all that and then Mick and Jerry left. I stayed there for a
little bit. Then Victor Bockris walked me down and we waited for half an
hour before a cab came (cab $5). Home at 11:00.
Sunday, March 2, 1980
It was very cold out. I went to church. Then I had to be ready at 2:30 to go
to the Regency to take photographs of Sylvester Stallone. Fred was waiting.
Suite 1526. Sylvester was looking good. He’s back with his wife, Sasha, she
was there, she’s cute and smart, she looks very young. I don’t know why he
would leave her for Susan Anton.
I made him take off his shirt and he was wearing some kind of medal. I
used ten rolls of film, because he’s really really hard to photograph. From
the front his neck is skinny, then from the side it looks three feet wide.
From the front he has a huge chest, and from the side no chest at all. His
hands are pretty, I used his hands, but sometimes they look tiny and
sometimes they look huge. He’s like Rubber Man.
He had the bodyguard who was the bodyguard Tom Sullivan used in
Cocaine Cowboys, so we talked about Tom. Sylvester talked about the
Academy Awards, he said he hated All That Jazz. He said the Academy
Awards ignored him and Woody Allen this year.
He said he’s about to go to Hungary to do a movie, an action movie, and
then after that he wants to do the Jim Morrison story. I told him we were
really good friends with Jim, and that Tom Baker was his good friend and
that he should talk to Tom who’s in town, by the way, and he’s calling me.
I told Stallone he should do the Linda Lovelace book. He said that he
was worried, I guess, that he was a one-movie person, and he named a few
people that were one-movie people. He named somebody from The Boys in
the Band.
We were there for about an hour. His wife had gone into the other room
and she didn’t come out to say goodbye, I don’t know why.
Monday, March 3, 1980
Cab to Union Square ($2, supplies $8.10, $20.50). I was meeting Carol, a
cousin of mine from Butler, Pennsylvania. She drove me up the wall
because she talks so slow. Then she left and I worked all afternoon. I made
Rupert come up. I needed someone to go with me to the Ted Kennedy
poster signing. So we went up there, to Madison Avenue (cab $4) to the
Brewster Gallery. But Ted Kennedy didn’t show up, he was in
Massachusetts. It would only have been good if he was there signing, too.
I’d been signing all afternoon. All the Kennedys were there. Kerry and one
of her sisters, and Kerry’s prettier. They’re all funny-looking, those kids.
Pat Lawford was there, and they posed us together. She was nervous so she
was drinking and she gave a speech. It was hard work. Kerry went around
selling the posters. They were $750 and $2,000.
Tuesday, March 4, 1980
Catherine Oxenberg came for her cover Interview lunch at 1:00, and she’s
only eighteen so she was nervous and really blabbed everything about her
mother sleeping around and how Sharon Hammond’s sister Maureen was
married to her father, but how Maureen is now living with Catherine’s half-
brother who’s maybe nineteen and she must be about forty, I guess. Her
mother’s Princess Elisabeth of Yugoslavia. It was a Balducci’s lunch, it was
a good interview. Tom Baker came to say goodbye, he’s leaving town. I told
him about Sylvester Stallone wanting to play Jim Morrison and he said
Stallone was too old to do it.
Wednesday, March 5, 1980
Picked John Reinhold up and we walked over to lunch at Pearl’s. We talked
about diamond dust. The dust is actually just like powder, but the chips are
what would look pretty and they would make a painting cost $20,000 or
$30,000. It was nice to see Pearl again.
Thursday, March 6, 1980
Lunch was for Richard Gere and his girlfriend Silvinha, who’s in this issue
of Interview. Fred invited a couple of Swedish people, and Chrissy Berlin
and Byron the pool player who’s somebody Zoli fell in love with, but he
doesn’t want to be a model—he plays pool and thinks modeling is too
frothy. He knows everything, like that at British Airways on Tuesdays and
Thursdays on Park Avenue, you just sign in and there’s free shrimp buffets.
Amina, the black model who’s writing a play, kept saying, “Where is
that Richard Gere? He’s supposed to be here!” But then when he came he
didn’t pay attention to her, so she didn’t like him anymore and she came
over to where I was signing Kennedy posters. Robyn brought the lunch
from 65 Irving, but then Brigid ate every bit that was left, so he didn’t have
any.
Then it was a beautiful day so I said why didn’t Brigid and Chrissy and I
go over to University Place to see if Bea was in her antiques shop. We
passed out Interviews to the junkies who’ve moved from Park and 17th to
the corner of 14th. Then we were all in Bea’s and Brigid said she’d be right
back, that she was going across the street to get a pack of cigarettes. And a
second after she left, I heard a big noise and a thud, and I just knew. I ran
out, and there was Brigid lying in the street with a truck one inch away
from her fat belly. Then she got up and she was laughing and she said, “No
no, I’m all right.” It was a truck from an art restorer. The kid was sweet, he
wanted to take her to the hospital, but she was so relieved she was all right
that she said no. She was just scared out of her wits. Chrissy was so nervous
she had to go home.
I was so happy Brigid was alive that I told her she could have anything
in the world so she had ice cream cones ($.75 x 4 and $.90 cookies from
Greenberg’s and then cake $12, Big Macs $8.52). We walked around for an
hour to make sure she was okay. All we could think about was here
today/gone tomorrow. I hope it taught her a lesson to be more careful.
Then we went back to the office. I told her she could have the rest of the
day off but it turned out they needed her. She went to an A.A. meeting and
then came back. Fred was really drunk at the office, he’d been to the Cecil
Beaton memorial thing. He was talking like Diana Vreeland and making
business calls, so I just hope he called the right people.
Monday, March 10, 1980
Got up and watched the Today Show and the weather guy I liked so much
they just got rid of. The Ryan guy, he was so great. Then the Donahue Show
had four fairies on. Again.
Sent Brigid to the bookstore to buy eight copies of Popism ($94.56).
I stayed downtown and cabbed with Vincent and Shelly to Charles
Maclean’s party, it was in Jennifer Bartlett’s studio on Lafayette Street. It
was a big party for English kids. Clare Hesketh, the wife of Lord Hesketh,
said, “Oh, isn’t Fred wonderful, he stayed up until 11:00 this morning with
me.” I said, “Oh really? That’s very interesting. He came to work at 11:15.”
Tom Wolfe was there and Evangeline Bruce and the McGraths. Oh, and
also Steve Aronson, and he introduced me to a lot of writers.
Tuesday, March 11, 1980
Kenny Lane called me and invited me to lunch at his place to meet a
Kuwaiti sheik (cab $3). The place was really pretty. Kenny introduced me
to the sheik and his wife—they call the women sheiks, too—and she said,
“My husband is short, so if he comes over to talk to you he may stand on a
chair.” She buys modern art, and he’s out to buy $200 million worth to
stock his museum with—like Kuwaiti rugs.
Marion Javits was there and she did the funniest thing, she said to Bob,
“Ask me questions the way a newspaper reporter would, and let me see how
I would answer.” And so Bob asked her why did she smoke marijuana in
public and why does she go to Studio 54. And Marion said, “Because it
turns me on.” And Bob said, “But you can’t say that, Marion.” And so then
she said, “Well, perhaps you’re not aware that my husband introduced
legislation to legalize marijuana.”
Then we had to go back to the office (cab $3).
Rupert came, I closed up at 7:00.
Dropped Bob off. Glued myself together and walked over to Diana
Vreeland’s. Elizinha Goncalves was there and Fernando Sanchez and
Sharon Hammond, and I taped Mrs. Vreeland. She told us the funniest story
about going to see Deep Throat. She has this friend who lives on top of her
building who lost her eyesight but one day she called Diana up and said,
“Diana, I can see. I have my eyes back, and I want to go to a movie.” Diana
said, “So I took her four blocks to see Deep Throat. And we got to the
theater and the ticket lady said, ‘Do you two ladies realize what you’re
getting yourselves into?’ And my friend was so excited she was going to the
movies she kept saying, I’m so thrilled, I’m so excited.’ So we get into the
theater and like in all pornographic movie theaters, there’s nobody there.
Just about twenty men, most of them asleep, they’ve slept through the thing
seven times and don’t know where they are, and the movie comes on and
my friend’s eyes were popping out of her head. She hadn’t seen anything
for ten years and now she was getting Deep Throat. And for days after that
she called me up saying, ‘Diana, do you think that girl’s hurt her insides?
How did she do it? Her throat must be all bruised.’ And I said, ‘Well, I don’t
really think about things like that—to me the whole movie was a romance.’
“ And Bob said, “Diana, how could you do that to an old lady?” And she
said, “What else do you take someone to see who hasn’t seen anything in
ten years? It gave her a lift!”
Then she took us to Quo Vadis.
Wednesday, March 12, 1980
I bought a hundred Popisms from Harcourt Brace.
Gregory Battcock came down, I gave him some books. Gerard called up
for two copies of the book. We still need an idea for the next cover of
Interview. I gave Brigid the tape of Diana Vreeland and Sharon Hammond,
but I forgot that for about ten minutes Sharon and I were talking about
Brigid on it. I had told Brigid about Diana Vreeland going to Deep Throat.
So that sounded funny, that’s what I thought I was giving Brigid and that’s
what she thought she was getting. But as Brigid had the earphones in and
was listening to the tape she got ten different colors on her face. Sharon was
saying things like, “Well yes, if Brigid leaves her job, yes, I’d love to take it
over.” And then Brigid thought I was being mean, giving her the tape, but I
just forgot we’d said anything about her on it. She got so upset she called
her sister Chrissy to come over and hold her hand. On the tape I was saying
that she got hit by a car—whammo—and that afterwards I’d bought her five
ice cream cones, and Brigid got hysterical when she heard that—she said it
was only three cones, that the other two were mine. But I think I convinced
her she had four. I named the flavors. Chrissy’s weight is going up. She’s
145 and Brigid is 166½. Brigid was in a state of shock for the rest of the
day, she stayed until 6:30.
I called Brigid when I got home. She and Chrissy had just gone to dinner
and had dessert. I had to think of a way to get Brigid to lose weight and so I
told her I’d give her $5 for every pound she lost, but that she had to give me
$10 for every pound she gained. She’s bringing her electric scale in to the
office tomorrow.
Saturday, March 15, 1980
Farrah Fawcett called and said she was on her way down to Union Square,
and she arrived in half an hour with Ryan O’Neal. They looked at her
portrait and I didn’t think Farrah liked it, but then she studied them for
about half an hour and finally said she loved it. I had Bob come down
because I thought he could talk them into doing a cover, and she said she
would. And she looked pretty, her hair was all washed, and she looked very
very nice. She’s sweet. So then they left and I stayed alone with Rupert.
Dropped him off (cab $4). Then glued myself together because I was
invited to Prince Abudi’s dinner for Marion Javits.
His place was just around the corner, at 10 East 68th Street, and as I’m
walking in, in comes Ultra Violet, wearing the same dress from the sixties,
with the same gold coins, and I said, “Gee, Ultra, you shouldn’t do that—it
might have been a camp when a gold coin was worth $35 but now they’re,
you know, worth $775 apiece, so you should be careful.” But she said she’s
had to sell most of the good ones, she was just wearing her pesos, very
heavy pesos. And it was really fun seeing her again, I kept asking her,
“Well, who invited you, how did you get here?” I think she’s a good friend
of Marion’s. I have a funny feeling that maybe she services people or
something, I have a funny feeling that maybe that’s it—like when there’s a
guy, an older guy maybe, she’ll go out with him or something. But she was
fun. I spent the whole evening with her because it was a really awful party.
Abudi was very quiet. Although he’s a Saudi Arabian prince he didn’t have
any young princesses there, so it was just all the people I know, like Sam
Green and Kenny Lane, and Marion’s boyfriend who makes holograms.
And she likes him. I don’t see what she sees in him, but he’s the mistress.
What would you call a guy who a woman sees? A “lover?” A gigo —no, a
lover, I guess.
And who else was there? Oh, the Bulgaris came, but I didn’t get a
chance to talk to them, because Ultra Violet went to the caviar dish and she
said it smelled like a tin and then Kenny Lane came over and said it was the
best caviar you could buy, so then she decided to eat half a pound of it. And
she said she was going to write her memoir. Oh! And she finally told me
how she got sick. It was all over Ruscha, the artist, Ed Ruscha. She had
fallen madly in love with him and he had a wife and he just couldn’t handle
it, and she just went too crazy because she was too in love with him, she let
her whole nervous system fall apart. And that’s when she was eating a piece
of gold every day—somebody told her that Indian people eat gold or
something like that, and it ate a hole in her stomach.
And now Ruscha doesn’t have the wife but it’s not the same. And she’s
looking for another young somebody. It ended up we were there until 3:00.
Sunday, March 16, 1980—New York—Washington, D.C.
Went to Washington to the Goldman Fine Arts Gallery and Judaic Museum at the Jewish Center in Washington. To
the gallery. And they had Popism and Exposures. It was hard. Every single person would think that they had to ask
me an intelligent question: “Did you use all these different pieces of paper to show all the different facets of
Gertrude Stein’s personality?” I just said yes.
Monday, March 17, 1980—Washington, D.C.—New York
Well, it was St. Paddy’s day. Bob ordered breakfast up. I didn’t have a good sleep. We watched the Match Game
and it was a fast round where the answer was “Andy Warhol” and one person was guessing “Peter Max” and then
“Soup Can” and then “Pop Artist.”
Our breakfast was cancelled at the White House. I guess the Carter administration doesn’t want to see us
anymore because I did the Ted Kennedy poster. But we were glad we didn’t have to get up so early to be over there
at 7:30. We slept till 11:30.
A girl came and took us to Kramerbooks, it’s a bookshop/coffee house, and so everybody was drinking. Bob
loves the place because it’s where he picked kids up when he was at Georgetown. People were shoving everything
at me to sign and I signed it all—underwear, a knife. Oh, (laughs) and I signed a baby.
We had to get the shuttle at 9:00 (tickets $153). Bought some newspapers and a Newsweek ($2). And Newsweek
had a great review of Popism.
And I forgot to say that at the bookstore in Washington Sargent Shriver went out of his way to come by and say
hello. He used to be so handsome. And oh God, it’s just so hard to talk to old ladies like I have to sometimes—
they’re so old and their teeth are crooked and all you see is their mouths, and it’s just so hard to stand it, and I
guess that’s about all the philosophy for now. Went to bed, had a glass of wine, fell asleep.
Tuesday, March 18, 1980
I’d invited Ultra Violet for lunch, and in the daylight she really looks like an old woman, but at night, with
makeup, she really looks gorgeous.
Then Divine was at the office. He said he had $2,000 to spend on a birthday present for Joan Quinn, and I told
him we didn’t have anything that cheap. But then afterwards it occurred to me that I’m sure he was just getting
something for Joan’s husband to give to her, that he had given Divine the money, so he was playing games.
Because I mean, Divine wouldn’t have had $2,000.
And I don’t know why Divine is so fat, he had one sandwich and then I offered another and he said, “Oh no,
thank you.” And Divine really is the only one who you can’t tell if it’s a boy or a girl. Because of the long earrings,
maybe. Like Edie Sedgwick earrings. And actually his face is the Edie type of face, but fat.
Rupert came by and helped out.
Bob was nervous, he was giving a lecture at Bard College that night, and he left at 4:00. His first lecture on
gossip.
Karen Lerner called and said that the 20/20 segment was put off for two more weeks. But I’m thinking, I don’t
really want it to go on, anyway, because when you get publicity on TV it just makes too many people aware of
you. I think I’m just doing okay with the little bit of publicity that I get, anyway. Because also, they use you up.
And it’s scary. Yeah, I think you can just get along on a steady little bit of publicity.
Carmen D’Alessio called and said she visited Steve Rubell in jail and that he sleeps, eats, and plays handball.
He’s talking to Neil Bogart about buying Studio 54. He says when he gets out he wants to do something
completely different.
Then I left to meet Richard Weisman and Catherine at the Mayfair House. Catherine’s been working for him
and they were spatting. It came out that she’d just told him she quit. It was an easy job—he just was sending her
out to buy his presents for him, I think (drinks $20).
Cabbed to Diane Von Furstenberg’s ($4). I had a fight with the cab driver, he wanted to go the way he wanted
to go. Richard wasn’t invited but he was Catherine’s date. The first person I ran into was Laverne of Laverne and
Shirley, and we talked about the “L” painting I was going to do for her. Richard was acting like a host—he always
does, somehow. He’s very insecure and he does drive you up the wall, but he’s nice. He thanked Diane for inviting
him, but she hadn’t. Harry Fane was there, and Barry Diller. It was a party for Nona Summers and her husband,
whose name I always forget, so they think I’m wigged out. That’s the new thing they’re calling me. Like in
Newsweek they called me that.
The same people as usual… Berry Berenson and the Niarchos kids, who it’s so funny to listen to after you’ve
heard Fred imitate them, the lisps. And Barbara Allen was running around saying that all her boyfriends were there
—Mick Flick, Mick Jagger, Philip Niarchos, and Bryan Ferry. Barbara looked gorgeous.
DVF said she couldn’t wait to read Popism, and that everybody loves it. And then Silvinha arrived with
Richard Gere and said that I was her sixties, so she’d try to be my eighties. Silvinha takes painting lessons from
Mati Klarwein the painter, who has the kid with Caterine Milinaire.
So Silvinha and a girlfriend were talking and Silvinha said she was making it with Max DeLy’s friend, that
Italian kid Danilo—she was saying this when Richard wasn’t nearby—and then she said, “I don’t know what to do
about Richard, we stay out till 4:00 and then sometimes we have sex and then sometimes we don’t, and I want to
expand his mind and take him to art galleries.”
François de Menil was there, I didn’t even know it. And in the bedroom they were all taking stuff. And Harry
Fane was putting the make on Silvinha or her girlfriend that she was talking to, he put on the “Fuck Me” look. And
Barbara Allen was running around saying who should she go home with. And then just as I was quietly slipping
out, Richard Weisman saw me and was screaming, “Andy! Andy! Are you leaving?” And then he wanted to leave,
too, and he does his thing of saying goodbye to everybody, just what I didn’t want to do. And then in the car he
said, “Do you think I made a mistake the other night, going to bed with Catherine?” I said, “What?” I mean, I
knew that he and Catherine had had sex once a while ago, but now here he was saying that they just had it, and I
mean, I can never bring it up to Catherine because it’s too embarrassing. And Richard was saying how he felt
guilty and did I think that was why Catherine quit, because when you do it with somebody you work for, then you
think you always have to do it.
Wednesday, March 19, 1980
We were going to see Heartaches of a Cat, the play that Kim D’Estainville produced. At the Anta Theater.
I went over to pick up Paulette and we went over to the theater. Paulette signed autographs. The play was so
cute, so unusual. Really beautiful masks of the animals. All the actors have animal faces, like the toy things in old
French books. Everybody loved it. It could be a hit. I mean, if the kids love Peter Pan they’ll just love this. It’s the
Argentinian group that broke away from Paloma’s husband.
Claudette Colbert was with Peter Rogers, and for some reason she’s always so happy to see me. Jerome
Robbins was there, I think he helped with it.
When they did the speeches in French it must have sounded so elegant, but in English, Miss Piggy speaks so
much better.
Then we went across the street to Gallagher’s for the after-the-show party.
Bianca, it turned out, never came because she had to wait at the airport for three hours to pick up a painting for
Thomas Ammann and she was mad ($10 to the limo).
A nice lady came to ask Paulette if she would give her daughter her autograph and Paulette took the lady’s hand
and lifted it off her shoulder and said, “I hate greasy hands on my white dress.”
Saturday, March 22, 1980
Worked till 7:30. Then cabbed to Si Newhouse’s ($4) on East 70th Street—a big wide house. An art party. Bruno
Bischofberger was there. And Mel Bochner the artist who was married to Dorothea Rockburn the artist and got
ideas from her. And Mary Boone who said she’ll give Ronnie a show, but he’s not interested because she calls him
every night at 4:00 in the morning. Carl Andre was there. I invited the Newhouse daughter to lunch on Monday,
she’s just a shy girl, but then I found out that her parents were divorced when she was little, so I don’t know if
she’s in the bucks or not. Mark Lancaster was there.
Bianca had called me before I went to the Newhouses’ and invited me over to Halston’s later, but I couldn’t
bring Mark because Halston gets upset when you bring another person. So cab to Halston’s ($1.50).
Bianca was talking on the phone to Steve Rubell in jail, and Steve was having to put in nickels every three
minutes. Because you can’t call them and you can’t write them letters, or he doesn’t want you to or something.
Somebody asked him if the phone was tapped and he said, “No, no.” But then somebody else was saying that when
they talked to him before, they could hear a guy warning him to watch what he said. Another inmate giving him
advice.
Steve said he’s having a wonderful time, that he’s put on eleven pounds, and he had sloppy rice for dinner. He
said that if he can get his liquor license back for Studio 54 then he’ll liquidate, because it’ll be easier to get rid of it
with a liquor license.
He said that the top people were there. I think he said Sindona, but I’m not sure. He said Ian sleeps all the time.
Bianca was saying all these things to him, like that she was going to Magique later to try it out and that she’d been
at Xenon the night before. I guess she thinks that kind of talk—that that’s the kind of talk that’ll excite him. He
kept putting nickels in. Bianca had John Samuels there, he got a haircut, and he looks fifteen.
Monday, March 24, 1980
I bought Wrestling and Petland and Jet—lots of different magazines—to see what they were like to get ideas for
Interview ($8.50, cab $3).
I had to be photographed by some ad agency and they did their whole setup and then asked me why I was so
creative, and I said, “I’m not.” So that blew their whole thing, they didn’t know what else to ask. Then I took the
car up to Bloomingdale’s. I was forty-five minutes late and they were mad. I autographed a lot of books. Then the
car drove me home. It was raining.
Went to La Boîte to the dinner Bob organized for Popism. And there were terrible speeches by Henry
Geldzahler who said I was the mirror of our times, and Ahmet who said everybody loves me. Richard Gere was
sweet and said he’d read the book and loved it. Stallone crashed with two girlfriends, and he and Bianca had a big
fight because he heard her putting him down. Everybody sang “Happy Birthday” to John Samuels who turned
twenty. And our editor Steve Aronson was there and he kept his whole table laughing.
Sunday, March 30, 1980—Naples
Lucio Amelio put us in the Excelsior Hotel and kept saying he got us the “Elizabeth Taylor” suite. But they gave
Beuys the bigger suite upstairs—that’s why they kept pushing the Liz Taylor business to me. But the rooms were
big, really big, looking over the black-market people who sell cigarettes.
Then we rested and were taken to Graziella’s brother’s who lives on the waterfront and they made us some
dinner. There was an old ex-movie star and an ex-fashion designer. They served all this food but Graziella and her
brother didn’t eat anything themselves, and that does make you feel very peculiar, so I learned my lesson—from
now on when we invite people to lunch I’ll eat.
Monday, March 31, 1980—Naples
We had to do TV in the streets, in the slums of Naples. Suzie hid her jewelry. We toured and it was great to see that
old-time thing of clothes hanging in the street from one window to another.
We went back to the hotel to meet Joseph Beuys and then we had dinner with Beuys and his family at some
funny little Italian restaurant. He was sweet. Really a lot of fun.
Tuesday, April 1, 1980—Naples
Up at 10:00, interview with Expresso again. Lucio picked us up and took us to the gallery because we had a press
conference with 400 people. Joseph Beuys loves the press now because he’s running for president of Germany
under the Free Sky Party and with me he can get more coverage—no, it’s the Green Party, that’s it. Then São
Schlumberger arrived and we invited her to lunch at this waterfront place. Then we were picked up for the opening
and there were at least 3,000 or 4,000 people there, you couldn’t get in, it was horrible, and finally we slipped
away, they were giving us a party at a place called something like City Hall, a drag nightclub. Finally after three
hours of waiting, this drag queen with hair on his chest came in and I was talking so she told me to shut up, she did
a couple of numbers and then all of a sudden pushed me aside and stormed out and we didn’t understand what had
happened, but somebody said she was too emotional because she was singing for me, she gets that way. But it was
too boring. Fred got insulted because the TV lights were shining on us too long, and told Lucio off, that it was the
most ridiculous evening, and that Lucio had wasted our time because that kind of evening wouldn’t sell pictures,
and that he was just using us to get into show business. We didn’t get into bed till about 4:00.
Wednesday, April 2, 1980—Naples—Rome
Fred and I had to leave for our private audience with the pope by 10:00 so we left Naples at 7:00. When we came
to the outskirts of Rome the driver didn’t know how to get into the city. We had to follow a cab to take us to
Graziella’s office to pick up two tickets to have a private audience with the pope. Suzie was very upset because it
was too exclusive for her to go, so she gave Fred her cross to have blessed.
We got our tickets and then the driver dropped us off at the Vatican. When we saw 5,000 other people standing
around waiting for the pope, too, I just knew that Graziella hadn’t gotten us a private audience. But Fred put on
airs and went up to the guards and said that we had a private audience with the pope and they laughed.
They finally took us in to our seats with the rest of the 5,000 people and a nun screamed out, “You’re Andy
Warhol! Can I have your autograph?” She looked like Valerie Solanis so I got scared she’d pull out a gun and
shoot me. Then I had to sign five more autographs for other nuns. And I just get so nervous at church. And then the
pope came out, he was on a gold car, he did the rounds, and then finally he got up and gave a speech against
divorce in seven different languages. There was a bunch of cheerleaders saying, “Rah-rah, pope.” That took three
hours. It was really boring, and then finally the pope was coming our way. He shook everybody’s hand and Fred
kissed his ring and got Suzie’s cross blessed. He asked Fred where he was from and Fred said New York, and I was
taking pictures—there were a lot of photographers around—and he shook my hand and I said I was from New
York, too. I didn’t kiss his hand. The people next to me were giving him a gold plate, they were from Belgium. The
mobs behind us were jumping down from their seats, it was scary. Then Fred was going to take a Polaroid but I
said they’d think it was a machine gun and shoot us, so we never got a Polaroid of the pope. As soon as Fred and I
got blessed we ran out.
We decided it would be fun to make up a good story to tell Suzie, so we went to have lunch on the Piazza
Navona ($45). We made up that we’d had a private audience with the pope and that he liked Fred so much that he
asked us to lunch and then he forgot to give us back Suzie’s cross.
Saturday, April 5, 1980—Paris
We went to Kim D’Estainville’s new shop near the Arc de Triomphe. A funny neighborhood. Kim’s recuperating
from his play folding on Broadway. There was nobody in town to try to sell ads to. We had dinner at Club Sept
(cab $4).
We had a big table and we were disappointed, there were models there, but all the good-looking ones had been
invited off to glamorous places and the ones leftover in town weren’t that good-looking. We were there for an hour,
about, and then Francesco Scavullo and Sean Byrnes came in and they sat down with us, we invited them to
dinner. And then Francesco told me about all the dirty things he heard I did at Studio 54 and I just couldn’t believe
it, all the boys he heard I brought home to the house, and I just was shocked, I mean, I don’t know where he got his
information, and I was just trying to find out where he got his gossip from so I could figure out why they’d say all
those untrue things.
Oh, and he told me Studio 54 shut down—that was the first time we got the news. Steve and Ian sold it. So the
end of an era.
And we also heard that Halston went to Xenon with Bianca, so that’s a first. And Bonds clothing store is going
to reopen soon as a discotheque on Broadway. Scavullo paid for dinner—I didn’t want him to because I’d invited
him, but he did.
Sunday, April 6, 1980—Paris
Easter. I had a horrible night. I had two nightmares about planes cracking open and the people falling out. Fred
went out and ran into Shirley Goldfarb, she said her eighty-eight-year-old mother in Miami Beach just sent her the
$25 she sends her every Passover for matzoh balls.
Monday, April 7, 1980—Paris—New York
Got up at 8:00 in Paris. Had a restless night because I thought I heard Fred slip out. I heard the door shut and the
things click that would all mean he had slipped out. But then when I asked him in the morning, he said that he
hadn’t, so I don’t know. All I would’ve had to do was look, but I didn’t. And I get so scared when I’m alone
someplace, and I don’t keep people’s phone numbers—I should, but I don’t. But I will from now on.
We got to the airport, Charles DeGaulle, really really fast so we had an hour and a half before the plane. Then
there was a black guy in the waiting room and I wondered (laughs) how he could afford to be getting on the
Concorde. And then he said to me, “You haven’t photographed me yet.” But I still didn’t know who he was. And
then suddenly I figured out he was Dizzy Gillespie! He’d just been in Africa and he said things were great down
there. He was adorable, so cute. He said he loved Africa, that there was a lot of dirt on the ground, that he liked
that.
He said he’d been photographed by a famous photographer once, and at first he didn’t remember who, but then
I think he said Carl Van Vechten, and that made sense because he was in the Somerset Maugham biography I just
read and he was jazzy, he always had these jazz people. Dizzy said he had a new book out and we said we wanted
to interview him, so we took his number in New Jersey.
Andrew Crispo was also on the plane. He’s bought all of somebody’s Art Deco collection. He had a Dunand
vase with him, and he was with a cute boy.
Didn’t see Dizzy get off the plane (tips $10). We went through customs easy because the customs guy was
really impressed with the picture of us with the pope on the top of the bags. We got out and our car wasn’t there, so
we jumped in a cab ($.75 toll). All the way in, even though it was the middle of the transit strike, there was no
traffic! The driver kept saying he didn’t believe it. We sailed right in. But at 89th Street when Fred got out, a lady
jumped in our cab who didn’t speak English because there’s a rule on that you have to have at least two people in a
car during the strike. I saw a cop making a girl with a car give some kid a lift. So everybody’s meeting people.
It was really a beautiful, beautiful day. There were so many people out walking because of the transit strike.
Wandered to the office. Brigid and Robyn were there. I worked all afternoon, waited for Rupert who didn’t arrive
till 6:30 because he walked. Brigid and I went out passing Interviews. A bag man started screaming that if I would
only stand still he could get a picture of me. He was really screaming, looking through his bags for his camera.
And then I asked him if I could take a picture of him and he said no, but I did, anyway. He really had a camera
with a flash that worked. Maybe he was a playwright or somebody doing an article on what it’s like to be a bag
man. He was about forty.
Tuesday, April 8, 1980
Rupert came in and we worked on the Jewish Geniuses. Truman called and he sounded like his old self, he said
he’d been working hard. He said that his Chameleon book is going to be in the Book-of-the-Month Club, and I
asked him how you got that and he said (laughs) from being a good writer.
Karen Lerner called and said that Hugh Downs was going to do an update on the 20/20 story and that it was for
sure going to run this Thursday. She thinks it’s going to be thirteen minutes, and I’m just so scared, I just think our
whole business is going to fall apart after that kind of big network exposure. That’s what I’ve really come to
decide.
I watched the Today Show where there was a forty-seven-year-old black man who was a boxer and then became
a dentist for seventeen years and now he’s decided he’s going to be a boxer again, and it was such an up story.
I bought some garlic pills because I just read a book that said garlic is against sickness, and I believe that, it
seems right. Forgot to say that at a cocktail party the other night a woman came over and kissed me on the lips and
then said, “I’m so sick, I’m dying.” Why do people do that? Are they trying to pass their disease on to somebody
so they won’t have it anymore?
Wednesday, April 9, 1980
Walked in the rain to the office. Transit strike still on. Worked all afternoon. Locked up at 6:00. Gael Malkenson’s
boyfriend Peter Love had a truck and it took us forty minutes just to go around the corner. In the truck was Robyn,
Aeyung from Interview, Bob’s sister, Bob, and Tinkerbelle. And Tinkerbelle was putting down the Jews and we
said, “Are you Jewish?” and she said, “Oh my God, no, of course not!” I said, “But Tinkerbelle is a Jewish name. I
mean, ‘belle.’ “
When I got home I cancelled out on a Regine’s thing, my sore throat was getting so bad. It was from that
woman who kissed me the other night and then said, “I’m dying.” I took a sleeping pill and went to bed, but it
didn’t help, my throat still got worse.
Oh, and Carmen D’Alessio told Bob about visiting Steve in prison once a week. They have meetings in the
waiting room where all the other prisoners are having their meetings. She met the right-hand man of Sindona who
stole a lot from the Vatican. She said everyone’s really nice in the prison except for one guy with tattoos who’s the
bowling-ball murderer. Carmen signed a contract with Mark Fleishman, the new owner of Studio 54, to continue
doing parties and publicity. He thinks he’ll have a liquor license within twelve weeks.
Thursday, April 10, 1980
They were going to film me for another ABC show, Omnibus—they’re reviving it—and the car was picking me up
at 10:00.
The Omnibus people arrived at the office at 7:30, they’d worked it all out with Vincent the day before. This was
a show on Carly Simon getting her portrait painted by me and by Larry Rivers and by Marisol. I’d said that I
wouldn’t do one more thing without being paid, and Vincent worked out a contract with them—Carly was going to
pay for most of it.
I was in the limo alone, and we went down the West Side Highway. I had a camera with me because I’ve
decided to take pictures everywhere I go to prove that I really do go to all these places every day. The windows of
the car were black so to do it I had to roll them down. A few people on the West Side Highway said, “Hi, Andy.”
Then we got off the highway at 23rd Street and this black kid said, “You filthy white rich person, all you think
about is money.” And there were a few of them, and I got scared. Fred told me later that I should have screamed
back, “All you think about is money! And mugging to get it.” And they kept following the car. It scared me so
much.
I got to the office and they wired me and sent the car back for Carly Simon.
Carly was too nervous to come up until we sent some wine down to the car. Then she came up and was
sociable. We made her put on lipstick and then after we worked she was hungry and we sent to Brownies for health
sandwiches and she loved that. I taped it all (Brownies $8.30, $23.44). And then Ara Gallant came with Susan
Strasberg and she twisted Bob’s arm to interview her, she’s just written a book.
At 6:00 Jodie Foster came to 860. She looked beautiful. With her mother. She and her mother are a team. It’s
like a marriage—Jodie’s the father. She’s very intelligent and she’s gotten into all the colleges she’s applied to
except she hears from Harvard, Yale, and Princeton on Monday. In case she goes to Harvard we were telling her
about John Samuels and how cute he is, but I don’t know what type she’d like because she dresses really like a boy
—all in Brooks Brothers.
While we were there Brigid called the restaurant to say that the 20/20 segment on me had just been on TV and
she said it was great. Hugh Downs narrated it. And Brigid’s so critical of me, so I was relieved. I mean, if even she
couldn’t find anything wrong with it, it must’ve been okay.
They’re selling Kitty Miller’s everything. Christie’s is. I mean, her used underwear, her used potholders,
everything. She has (laughs) three unused Halston shirts. And she’s got a few Revillon furs that cost $80,000
that’ll probably go for $3,000. Furs have no resale value … I know killing animals to make coats is sad, but look,
even when you think about killing cows to eat they’re so big and beautiful and everything’s alive—the plants are
screaming.
I’m still weighing 140, I don’t understand it, I’m not eating that much, my metabolism must have changed. I
should be 136. But now I’m eating the nuts and chocolate and things that I’m not supposed to eat because of my
gallbladder, because I think the gallbladder pills are helping so that I can eat them. But I’m getting fat so for that
reason I’ll have to stop.
Walter Steding is performing at the Squat Theater on 23rd Street—that theater where they did that thing called
“Andy Warhol’s Last Tape.”
Friday, April 11, 1980
Henry Geldzahler came by to talk about me doing a poster for New York City and Fred thought it was a good idea.
Then Henry wanted to go right out and photograph a tree for the poster. He needs it in two weeks. But I’m just
beginning to think Henry may be crazy. He said Ellsworth Kelly wanted to paint on top of my portrait of him, and
I said sure, but then he admitted that he wanted me to print another one so he was just trying to get a free painting
out of me for Ellsworth Kelly to paint on. He still wears his badge that Mayor Koch gave him under his lapel.
Rupert came in and we were numbering portfolios. The Ten Jewish Geniuses portfolio really sold, so now Ron
Feldman wants to do Ten Rock Stars, but that’s corny, isn’t it? Or Ten Phantoms, like Santa Claus. But I think the
Jewish Geniuses only sold because they were Jewish, so we should do Ten Jewish something else. Like Ten Jewish
Rock Stars.
I called Harcourt Brace and screamed at them for not delivering the eighty books that I paid for. Jackie Curtis
came up to get one and heard me screaming on the phone at them and got the message and backed right out. And I
screamed at a few people, and finally the girl said, “Well, you paid with a personal check and we had to wait to see
if it cleared.” Can you believe it! I think Jovanovich must be so petty himself because he runs the worst company,
they’re small-time, they’ve got a name, Harcourt Brace, but that’s all. So that screaming took all afternoon.
Saturday, April 12, 1980
Got up early and watched the cartoonies. I had to carry a portfolio downtown for a lady who’s trading for an ad
(cab $4). And then she went through them all and found a smudge mark on one of them, she was an anal retentive.
I got that from Rupert, he called her that. She went through them from cover to cover.
I called and asked Brigid how she was coming with transcribing the Jodie Foster tape, and she said she’d been
working on it for hours, that it was great, great. And I asked her to be more specific and she said she was at the part
where Jodie was looking around the office and I mean, we were only at the office for the first two minutes, so I
knew she hadn’t done anything, and I screamed.
Random House wants to do 400 of a special edition of the portrait catalogue. They’d make a lot of more money
off it than I would, though, so we were trying to think of what to do.
Monday, April 14, 1980
Went out on the street with some Interviews and I was curious to see if people were still recognizing me all the
time from the 20/20 TV show, but they weren’t. So this means that TV makes you famous for one day and then it
fades. Passed out Interviews, wandered, and took a couple of cabs but was shocked out of my mind—the fare
increase was in effect (cabs $4.05, $5.05). It really does seem to be a lot more. I’m just going to tip a small amount
from now on and not even worry about it. I guess I’ll have to walk to work. Halfway to work. Eventually got to
Union Square.
We were having lunch for Henry Geldzahler. The eighty Popisms finally arrived from Harcourt Brace in the
morning and I gave them out to everybody, but I’m going to be more stingy with them now, with inflation. Henry
wanted to take me out to photograph the tree for the city poster, but just as we were having lunch it started to rain.
Oh, and I forgot to say that during lunch Fred came in and told me there was a roommate of Steve Rubell’s
from prison there who wanted to see me, and I said no! I mean, why would Fred even come and tell me that? Why
would I want to talk to somebody like that? And Fred said that he thought I should see him, so I went out there,
and this absolute creep is saying things like, “Steve says he can’t talk on the phone because it’s bugged”—like I
talk to him, anyway, right? And he said, “Steve wants an Italian dinner.” So Bob finally said, “Well what’re you
here for?” and the guy said he wanted money to buy the Italian food for Steve. So Bob gave him $20 and he said,
“That’s not enough.” So Henry gave him another $20 and I had to pay them both back later ($40). But he was just
shaking us down. And after he left I screamed at Fred for being so stupid, he should have just gotten rid of him. I
mean, Fred must have stayed out all night and not had his brains right or something.
Then we went up to Polly Bergen’s apartment on Park Avenue (cab $3.50). This was the Academy Awards
party. We were just in one TV room and we didn’t see all the others. Ex-Mayor Wagner and his wife Phyllis who
used to be married to Bennett Cerf were there, and the Helen Gurley Browns.
And Dustin won. Poor Bette Midler didn’t, and she gave that part everything she had, right down to the last—
fart.
Tuesday, April 15, 1980
Did I say yet that David Whitney said that the townspeople have been seeing Truman’s car parked at Silver Hill
and did some checking around and he’s there? He’s going into the local stores there buying those little doodads
that he buys.
Went with Henry Geldzahler to the Village where the Women’s House of Detention was, which is now a
locked-up park. The trees there were just perfect to photograph for the poster. I gave an Interview to the lady with
the key to the garden. Then Henry left me in the Village and I was stopped by a kid who said he grew up in the
foster home with Joe and Bobby Dallesandro and he said he was really good friends with Bobby. So I had to tell
him Bobby committed suicide and he was just stunned. I left him there on the street being shocked.
Back at the office Bob was in a bad mood. I dropped him off (cab $5.50). Glued myself together, picked up
Catherine, and cabbed to Bill Copley’s place. Bill’s secretary told me that Bill left Tommy the dog, who was the
sweetest thing at the party, out on the terrace by mistake on the coldest day of the year, and somebody saw him out
there and called the police who had to come and get him off. I said I wanted to take Tommy home with me, and
Bill might let me have him, he’s thinking about it.
Clarisse Rivers was there, just back from Mexico, and Vincent and Shelly and Michael Heizer. And Christophe
de Menil was with Viva’s ex-husband, Michel Auder—she goes after the worst people. She looked beautiful, like
one of those old-fashioned prints. Her hair was up and she has a tiny body.
Wednesday, April 16, 1980
Henry Post came by the office and we were all shocked that he would because he had his lawyer send Bob a letter
saying that he could sue us if he wanted to because Bob said in Interview that Steve Rubell said the New York
article Henry wrote on 54 was all lies. And Henry was supposed to be a friend. He looks terrific, he’s been going to
the gym. But I think he’s still wearing makeup, like rouge. We were going to the Roy Cohn thing, it was for
convicts who make art, prisoners who paint. There were about forty people there. Roy had borough presidents
there and presidents of Revlon. And Cindy and Joey Adams were there and Joey gave a speech, he said, “I thought
this was a party for Roy’s clients, Ian and Steve. How come they don’t paint?” Andrew Crispo was an organizer of
this thing and he bought a painting. It was embarrassing because I didn’t buy anything.
Went home and glued myself and walked to Quo Vadis where we were interviewing Nastassia Kinski. She was
very pretty and tall and spoke English well. We were afraid to ask her anything about Roman Polanski until the
very end and then she told us she didn’t have an affair with him. She was interesting, but not as fascinating as
Jodie Foster. She speaks six languages and she could just redo every Ingrid Bergman movie. She looks like what
Isabella Rossellini could look like. We dropped her off at the Navarro. She’s been in town three weeks and wants
to stay forever. She’s staying with Milos Forman and I guess they’re having an affair, because she was saying
something about making dinner for him during the Academy Awards. She was telling us that he offered her the
best movie role, the one of Evelyn Nesbit coming down the stairs naked in Ragtime, and I didn’t have the heart to
tell her that that’s the role Milos offers every girl he’s been going after —Margaret Trudeau and two others. It’s his
line. So we dropped her off (cab $5).
Then we went to the Tavern on the Green party for the opening of The Watcher in the Woods. It was a party for
Bette Davis that we got a telegram inviting us to. I went over to her and I thought we were friends because once I
had a long conversation with her and she knew about when I was shot and was very sweet and everything. So I
went over to her to refresh it and I said, “Oh, hi—I’m Andy Warhol, remember?” And she looked at me and said,
“Yeeess.” And she turned around and walked away. And then later somebody at her table said, “Oh have you met
Andy Warhol?” and she said, “Yes, I’ve met Andy Warhol.” Very cold. So I don’t know what’s wrong.
Sylvia Miles was there and she ran to get her pocketbook with all her clippings in it from Hammett and from
some other movie to show me. Lewis Allen was there. We’re still talking to him about doing Exposures and the
Philosophy book as a play.
Saturday, April 19, 1980
Fred called and said I had to pick up Lynn Wyatt, that the limo would be at my house at 8:00. The Saturday
newspapers were great. There was the bathtub murders, the guy says he kills things and doesn’t remember—things
like his wife and daughter—and that it used to happen to him with animals, too, that he’d wake up and look around
and they’d be dead. And the full Barry Landau story, how he’s Miz Lillian’s best friend and he’s going down to
Washington to testify again.
Left the office at twenty to 8:00 and when I got uptown the limo was already waiting there (cab $5.50). So I
went in and glued and Lynn Wyatt called and said that Jerry Zipkin was having cocktails first, at 95th and Park,
and I told her it was Harlem. But we went up there.
Then we went to the St. Regis where François de Menil was having his thirty-fifth birthday party bash and we
went up to the roof. François had his new girlfriend from Texas there. And some of his old girlfriends, too. Lynn
wanted to be at the table with Diana Vreeland and Fred. And Francois’s older brother, George, who keeps a low
profile.
Bob Wilson was there, he’s dating the Schlumberger girl from Washington, Katy Jones. Little Nell was there,
the English dancer. Aileen Mehle was there. It was an okay party. There was no big movie star or rock star there, it
was just in a funny way all his friends.
Lynn couldn’t come down to 860 to see her portrait, she was going to Paris the next day.
Monday, April 21, 1980
When I got into the office I noticed that Robyn was typing up one of those things that says what you’ve done—
what’s it called? A resume.
Iolas was coming to lunch with a couple of clients and we needed a couple of boys to entertain. And I called
Curley and he brought his cousin David Laughlin who works at the Coe Kerr Gallery. Iolas arrived and his contact
that he never takes out of his eyes got lost in his eye and he had me look for it, but I couldn’t see it. Jackie Curtis
came in in full drag and pink slippers and kept interrupting me to ask if he was interrupting anything. I told him no
because actually he wasn’t. He didn’t eat anything because, he said, he was on a diet and had already had a half a
pound of ham and three eggs that morning for breakfast. He wanted some Popisms so I gave them to him. He was
on his way to a fashion show so he left. But then later he came back again. This time he was interrupting and he
was drunk. But Kimiko and John Powers had come by and Kimiko loved Jackie and if you can believe it, she
didn’t even realize it was a man. Jackie looked good, he’s lost weight. He said he wanted to take Brigid’s job, her
typing job, and he said he’d be very good, that he’d just type in a corner. But oh, he talks right into your face.
Jackie had a sequined shirt on and was wearing a bracelet he said I gave him but I don’t remember. Then he gave
bracelets to Brigid and Kimiko to try to buy their affections.
Tuesday, April 22, 1980
Cheryl Tiegs and Peter Beard came by. Peter naturally wanted a free artwork and performance out of me. I had to
give them a tour around the place.
I had to leave early to make the 6:30 Martha Graham thing (cab $6). We got there and Martha was making her
speech like she always does for an hour first. She wants to be an actress. Nureyev was terrible, he just doesn’t
know how to be a modern dancer.
Thursday, April 24, 1980
Got up at 8:00 because Vincent said we had to be at the TV studio at the dot of 9:00 for the ABC thing on Carly
Simon where Larry Rivers and Marisol and I had to show our portraits of her. We went over there and then Larry
and Marisol arrived by limousine. We met the director who had a phony high-class accent. Larry was fun. He
decided to make the director work and said, “Where should I stand? What should I say? How should I look? What
should I think?” and things like that. I think Carly liked my portrait the best because she’s paying for it. I only had
one there, but Larry had five and one of his had a Chinese couple fucking in the background, and they made him
take it out. And then afterwards they wanted to shoot us in front of blank easels listening to Carly, and Larry said
no, that he’d submitted to what they wanted by taking the fucking couple out, so he wouldn’t do this corny thing.
Then Larry and Marisol came to the office for lunch. Marisol was cute. She invited me to her fiftieth birthday
party at Chanterelle, that very chic small restaurant downtown, but she said not to tell anybody it was her fiftieth.
Worked till 8:00. John Reinhold picked me up. Henry Geldzahler came and met us, we discussed the poster
some more, and then cabbed ($2.50) to dinner at Da Silvano on Sixth Avenue. It was good but it wasn’t as good as
the first time we were there (dinner $98.40). The owner went out and bought the Times because Henry had a half-
page interview with him in it and he was afraid it was going to say something unfavorable, but it didn’t. Then we
walked to the Ninth Circle because Henry wanted some interludes. The place was filled with intellectual fairies
who wanted to talk to me about my art, but Henry told them I was too dumb to do it.
Henry thought of a good quote about Popism: “It’s a real can opener.” Isn’t that great? Oh, and I’m forgetting
the most glamorous thing of the day is that Jackie O. called me twice at home and missed me and once at the
office, about would I give a quote for Diana Vreeland’s book Allure that’s coming out that’s pictures with captions.
She said, “It’s like your book Exposures,” or something like that.
Saturday, April 26, 1980
Robert Hayes has been missing a lot of work, and Bob found out it’s because he’s taking a lot of coke, which isn’t
like him at all, but the photographers and the stylists just hand it out so freely, to editors especially, because they
want the work, and so he’s been calling in a lot and saying he has “a cold” and doing things that he usually doesn’t
do.
I had to go to Lincoln Center to see Clytemnestra. The dance came out good, really great, and Martha was
thrilled because she’d been worried about it. Nureyev danced, he was awful. Saw him in the dressing room and
said hello. Bianca was wearing a Halston dress with an Ossie Clark coat. And the dress was beautiful, it was flesh-
colored in a V on top so it looked low-cut.
And the best thing was Diana Vreeland eating a banana. This banana was lying around Martha’s dressing room
and Diana really wanted it so she peeled it and just ate it right from the peel, and it looked so funny. She’s old
enough to look really really funny. She loves bananas.
Afterwards we went over to Halston’s and had a little supper. We tried to pick up some of the dancers and bring
them with us but Halston said Martha wouldn’t like it. So it was just Martha and Bianca and me and Diana and
John Bowes-Lyons. And Liza and Mark Gero came over. And an English guy who said he wrote songs for Charles
Aznavour. And he had a girl with him—Filipino, I think—and this girl said she’d lived with Michael Caine, and
since Bianca had lived with him, too, the girl poured her heart out to Bianca and Bianca dished, too, she said she’d
never talked about him before. They agreed that if he got drunk, he’d scream for hours. And this girl said she
would just do everything for him, get up at 5:00 and make him breakfast, and then she’d go to the set, and then
leave half an hour before he did to go home and make him dinner. They both said that sex with him was
“memorable,” but I don’t know if they meant really good or really bad.
Sunday, April 27, 1980
Nastassia Kinski came by the office. I wasn’t friendly to her, though, because it turned out she already did the
cover of Vogue and now we don’t want to use her for the Interview cover, but she really is beautiful. Picked up
Catherine. Cab to Hector’s on Third Avenue and 82nd Street ($4). It’s run by Stuart Lichtenstein, the kid who used
to manage Max’s. This was Averil Meyer’s birthday party. She didn’t put us with her, she was at a table with Diana
Vreeland and Mick Jagger. And we were waiting to see where she’d put John Samuels who she’d slept with the
night before.
Then Fred invited all the fairies to come afterwards—Robyn and Curley and Curley’s boyfriend and John
Scribner and his current girlfriend. Not really fairies, but that feeling. I had a good time with Bill Pitt. I asked him
if he still thought he was God and he said yes, but not as much. His father and Averil’s father are best friends. He
had a new camera that advances itself.
And Averil’s father was hitting Catherine, really drunk, and had her dress up practically over her head, and his
wife was just standing there. I thought Catherine would be Averil’s new mother, but then he has no money, we
found out. And Averil looked funny dancing with John Samuels because she was a foot taller in her shoes.
Tuesday, April 29, 1980
Bianca wanted to roller skate so we went to the Roxy in Thomas Ammann’s limo. Bianca really wants to marry
Thomas. She brings it up all the time. She’s dying to have him marry her. We skated for about half an hour. Bianca
skates like a little kid, and then she reminded me how she’d been on crutches because she’d pulled both her
tendons when she was roller skating in L.A. once, and then I vaguely remembered because when she and Mick
were starting to get divorced there were all those pictures in the paper of her going into the courtroom in California
(laughs) on crutches.
Bianca figured out that John Samuels was out at Averil’s in Manhasset. She put it together and then I confirmed
it. She said that Averil always gets her leftovers, that it’s so predictable. Bianca and John broke up on the night we
all went to Martha’s. She said, “He’s a child.”
Thursday, May 1, 1980
Calvin Tomkins has a big review of Popism in the New Yorker and it’s a rave. I should tell Harcourt Brace to just
go fuck themselves. What are they doing over there? When is the ad going to run in the Times!
In the morning I picked up Bianca and Victor and went to the Olympic Tower because I had an appointment
with Halston to see his sportswear line ($4.50). Bianca had a great Halston top on and a blue bottom and her ass
really was wide. She had on Manolo shoes and an Elsa Peretti belt. We got there just in time. Halston keeps using
his aging models because he feels they were loyal to him so now he’ll be loyal to them.
Cabbed to 860 ($5.50). Catherine was having a lunch for Alexander Cockburn and the P.J. O’Rourke guy from
the National Lampoon. A writer-photographer from Stern wanted to be photographed with me for the preface for
his book, and Henry Wolf, an old friend of mine, was there to take a picture. He was the art director of Harper’s
Bazaar in 1960 and he changed the look of the magazine. It was either him or Marvin Israel, I can’t figure out
which, who first used ugly girls with big noses and things. And I guess Mrs. Vreeland probably encouraged it
because actually it was, now that I think about it, just like putting herself on the cover.
Then the limo came at 2:30 to take us to Princeton for a book signing that Wilson Kidde set up for us. Ian
Maxtone Graham from Brown came with us.
They had a place set up to sign outside. It wasn’t a rich bookstore like the Harvard Coop. This was more just
like a little bookstore in a building, so it was better being outside because the kids going by would see a crowd and
go up to see. Then we had a tour of the campus. Really rich-looking. A naked rugby team ran by doing their
numbers, just wearing jockstraps, some kind of initiation or something.
Then Wilson took us to an all-male club for dinner, the Ivy Club, and just a few girls came by for drinks.
Champagne punch. All these rich kids. The grandson of Seabrook frozen vegetables. The son of J.D. Salinger,
Matt. He was really good-looking. He’s trying to be a photographer and he writes. A cousin of Frolic Weymouth’s
from Chadds Ford was there. And a kid who didn’t belong to the club, Ritt, who was a model for Elite, but he
didn’t look like one—he had a big nose and beautiful eyes but he was short.
I bought books. One was the Liddy book ($20.92).
Dinner at this all-male club was leftovers. Like spaghetti al dente, cheese on top. Baked alaska with Häagen-
Dazs that was 2’ X l’ that Ritt made. Four bottles of wine.
Went back at 9:00, the drive was nice.
Friday, May 2, 1980
I’m still not sure if we’ll take the 25 percent that that Hollywood guy, the one who works for Alan Ladd, is offering
for Trash II, which Paul is now calling Trash-ier.
Worked all day. Rupert was there. Till 9:00 or 9:30. Dropped Rupert ($5). Then Jed had a temperature of 104
and thought he was maybe having a heart attack, so at 4:00 in the morning I had to take him to New York Hospital
and Doc Cox was waiting there, but it was just chest pains like the flu, and he’s at home but his temperature is still
high.
Sunday, May 18, 1980
John Powers called and told me the prices at the art auctions, and the Triple Elvis went for $75,000 and he said he
thought that was a fair price so I felt okay, but then he told me that the Lichtenstein went for $250,000 so I felt bad.
Oh, and the three Jackies went for only $8,000, so that was a bargain.
Monday, May 19, 1980
I watched the Today Show and saw the volcano erupting. The man at the volcano who wouldn’t come down must
have been killed, they couldn’t find him.
Gerry Ayres called and he’s writing a movie called Painting—he wrote Jodie Foster’s movie, Foxes. He’s the
studio person that brought us out to Hollywood in ‘69. And he wanted to meet Henry Geldzahler. And so I made a
lunch with Henry for Wednesday.
I met Bob in front of his house and we walked to the Plaza for the JOB Ball—Just One Break—and we’d
missed the cocktail hour. All the old bags came out for this. Nan Kempner was there with Jerry Zipkin. Robyn’s
mother was very sweet. She and Bob chatted, they’re having the same problem—somebody is signing them up for
all these magazine subscriptions and they keep coming in the mail. I sat next to Mrs. Tony Curtis. And so I said,
“Oh, I wish I was home watching Tony Curtis on Moviola.” And she said yes, that she liked Tony a lot but that
they were just breaking up. They’d been married twelve years. She was nice.
Sharon Hammond was there with her new beau, Lord Sondes. She’s gained five or six pounds and she was
porking it up. And the lord has a potbelly, too. I couldn’t believe it when I saw her eat a whole roll. I took it away
from her.
All the old presidents of the ball got up there, São and Chessy Patcevitch and Sharon’s mother Mrs. Long and
Nan and Jean Tailer and a couple of other heavy-duty ladies. They gave door prizes.
Then Bob and I went to Linda Stein’s party for our agent Joan Hyler. When we got to the party one of the
photographers told me, “You’re the biggest one here,” so that’s always a letdown. Paul Morrissey was there with
his two nieces and Susan Blond and Sylvia Miles, and Sylvia said, “You’ve got to hear my songs,” and I said, “Oh
yeah, I can’t wait.” And she said, “You don’t have to—I’ve got them right here in my bag.” So I had Linda Stein
put them on the record player and they sounded good to me but there were eight different record people there and
they didn’t react. And then Linda came over to Paul and said, “Oh listen, I mean, you’re the only person here who
realized that I’m wearing emerald earrings and have Regency furniture and Lalique, and if it wasn’t for you telling
them, they would think it was junk. So thank you.”
Legs McNeil who started Punk magazine was there.
Wednesday, May 21, 1980
Henry Geldzahler’s using the yellow and green print for the New York City poster, and he said Milton Glaser is
working on it, and I hate his kind of designs. Henry was at the office for lunch so that Gerry Ayres could meet him
and soak up the art world. Jerry’s script that he’s writing is actually called The Painter—not Painting—and he’s
writing it for Jack Nicholson. I should tip Jack off that he should just buy the Jackson Pollock story.
Rupert Everett was there, he just got kicked out of the Blackstone and now he’s at the L’Elysée, or vice versa.
Henry had his new lover with him that he’d picked up from NYU, and he was having me take pictures of them
kissing. He’s going out to California soon to see his old boyfriend Raymond who’s out there posing for David
Hockney—Raymond takes planes just to go pose. At the end of the lunch Henry said to Gerry Ayres, “But what’s
the painter going to paint? I mean, that’s the story, so what’s it going to be?”
Cabbed uptown ($4.50) to glue and then walked to Sharon Hammond’s. I was met at the door by Tony Curtis’s
wife, Leslie, who was staying with Sharon, she was really looped. She said she was a rich society girl from Boston
and how could she marry an actor and a Jew. Sharon was in the bathroom. Her boyfriend Lord Sondes had just left
town and they’d been eating all the time, and this was Sharon’s first time in the John after all the food, and Leslie
said she’d walked in on her doing her grunts. And then Sharon’s so meticulous with her makeup that it takes
forever, too. Sharon was surprised when I said I would have a vodka. She has big tits.
I’d brought a copy of Popism to give to Marty Bregman who we were seeing later because I thought he might
be interested in producing a movie of it, but of course I had to give it to Leslie. Cabbed to East 57th Street ($3) to
Marty Bregman and Cornelia Sharpe’s apartment. We went up to the penthouse. It was one of those funny parties
with aging girls and sort of funny people. I guess people there were somebodies, but stars today look so mousy you
just don’t notice them. For half an hour I didn’t notice Al Pacino sitting in the corner.
I wasn’t letting Sharon eat because she’d gained weight. I introduced her to Al Pacino, and so she liked that. He
said, “Hi, Andy.” Leslie picked up a guy with big hands. He was a hometown friend of Cornelia’s and she said,
“Don’t worry”—(laughs)—“she’s in good hands.” Cornelia looked fat. And Alan Alda was there with this lady
with dark circles and it turned out to be his wife. She looked like Anna Magnani. She’s not the wife you’d think he
would have, but she looked nice—I’m sure she must be if they’re still married. We rode down in the elevator with
them. We left Leslie with a stiff drink in her hand. Dropped Sharon ($3).
Thursday, May 22, 1980
A tall skinny Japanese boy came to interview me, and he was cute, he was so nervous, just shaking, he said he was
meeting the star of his life. He’s from Studio Voice, the Japanese Interview. He brought me a T-shirt.
I was reworking Lynn Wyatt’s portrait. Sent flowers to Sharon Hammond and Cornelia Sharpe.
Gael Malkenson said she’s getting married this Saturday. In a Catholic church. But she always says things that I
don’t know if they’re true. Worked till 7:00. A kooky girl followed me to Park Avenue when I left, she was like one
of those kooky girls you meet when you first come to New York. Dropped Rupert ($4) and got home around 8:00.
I looked through my things for something for Marisol for her birthday and finally decided to give her a little
painting, but when I went to pick Victor up he wanted it, so I gave it to him. We went down to Chanterelle in Soho,
that restaurant that everybody raves about and says how small it is and how hard to get into. Well, it wasn’t so
small, it looked big, really. And the food was just okay, it wasn’t so hot. Marisol kept saying this was the first party
she ever gave, and Halston assured her it was really great. The first person I talked to was Ruth Kligman, and she’s
now a born-again Christian. And she was different. Very nice and calm, but then I began telling her about Gerry
Ayres’s movie The Painter that he was writing for Jack Nicholson, and then she was more like her old nervous
self. She said, “Should—do you think I should call Jack?” and “Do you think my lawyer should call Gerry Ayres?”
and I said, “It’s only a fiction thing he’s writing! Relax. After he does that, artists’ stories will be more popular and
you can really sell your book Love Affair for a movie.” Ruth said maybe she could get Nick Nolte to play Jackson
Pollock. And she explained that when you’re born-again you just get a clean slate wipeout, that nothing you did
before counts. So it’s just like confession, that’s all it is except you can go to confession every day and I guess you
can only be born again once.
John Cage was there and Merce Cunningham and Louise Nevelson who came at the end of the dinner but had a
special place saved for her. George Segal and his wife. Joe Brainard. It was nice to see him again after all these
years, but I didn’t get to talk to him much, really.
Marisol looks good for fifty. She made the birthday cake in the afternoon and it was really just beautiful—
beautiful marzipan figures, beautiful beautiful figures fucking, and she gave me one and Halston one and they
were like little jewels.
We told Marisol she shouldn’t tell her age because people would never know and she said she thought they
already knew because it’s always in all the catalogues and I told her people don’t read the catalogues, and she said
(laughs) well that then only the forty people or so that were there at dinner would know.
Friday, May 23, 1980
I forgot to say the most important person at Marisol’s dinner, he sat next to her—Edward Albee. He was tight-
lipped, but I tried to get him to loosen up and talk, but nothing really happened. He said he read where I’d said his
last play, the one with Irene Worth, was “the best play I’ve ever seen,” and he thanked me. I guess I said it to one
of the papers. I told him he should write Marisol a play for her birthday.
Lunch at the office was supposed to be for Lewis Allen, but he forgot about it. It was going to be a lunch for
him to sign the play contracts, but he had a play opening the night before and got tired and forgot, he said he’d sign
on Tuesday.
Monday, May 26, 1980
Memorial Day. No traffic around. Went to the office. Worked on about six or seven portraits.
Curley was back from his brother’s wedding. And did I say that the other day Senator Kennedy called me at the
office and I couldn’t get him off the phone and I didn’t know what to talk to him about. I guess he didn’t have
anything to do. But Fred was explaining why he’s stayed in the race—to raise money for the Democratic pot. His
Smith sister called me the other day but I didn’t take the call, I knew it’d be to want me to give a donation for
something.
Did I remember to say that at the Empire Strikes Back movie there was a black kid about fifteen or sixteen
sucking his thumb in the row ahead of me with his parents? I don’t think he was retarded. He didn’t look retarded.
Tuesday, May 27, 1980
Lewis Allen came by and he wants to do the play, Evening with Andy Warhol, with a dummy of me on stage saying
dialogue based on the Philosophy book and Exposures.
Friday, May 30, 1980
Stayed uptown because I had to meet Nicola Bulgari at 12:30 with Bob. After we saw the jewel collection he took
us to the Knickerbocker Club which was really great. It’s across from where the Dodge house was that’s now torn
down. The food was great there, mashed potatoes and rice pudding and eggs. Bulgari was saying things like “Hide
the tape” and “They won’t let you do that if they see that,” and he was acting like “this isn’t that kind of a place,
it’s too high-class.” Like he didn’t want to get voted out. It was too corny. After lunch we went into another room
for an hour. I don’t know why, he just wanted to blabber. He’s (laughs) against Communism.
Saturday, May 31, 1980
I was working at home. I watched a good old movie about skating with Dick Powell. It wasn’t really about skating
but it had everybody skating. It was so cute, it looked just like the Roxy. Skating was so big in the early forties, I
guess, but then it died out in the fifties—no, in the sixties, I guess. Everything died out in the sixties.
Monday, June 2, 1980
Rupert called and said that it was raining down at his place so he couldn’t bring the prints out, but it wasn’t raining
where I was so I didn’t know whether to believe him. I had an appointment to meet Richard Gere for lunch (cab
$5.10).
Barbara Allen was the first to arrive, and then Richard Gere and Silvinha, and the wife of Taki
Theodoracopulos that he isn’t really married to yet. Barbara’s trying to arrange a surprise wedding for Taki—have
him come over and have a justice of the peace there to marry them. But I thought that Barbara was going with
Taki, having an affair with him, so I don’t know how she got to be such good friends with his girlfriend. Oh, and
also at the lunch was the psychedelic artist, Mati Klarwein.
The Japanese guy from Studio Voice was there, and he really is just crazy about me. He wanted me to give him
a new name, so I gave him “Chuck Roast.”
Went to Côte Basque for dinner. I was meeting the commissioner there, because I had to talk to him about
doing more posters for the city, more ideas. I had a lot of ideas, but they weren’t (laughs) so good. They sounded
better when we were drunk—like a gold pencil sharpener. I think it’s been done already. And Brooke Hayward was
at Côte Basque with Philip Johnson. We stayed a little bit talking to her and nobody brought up the terrible TV
movie of her Haywire book.
Sean McKeon came down. He’s a Wilhemina model.
Wednesday, June 4, 1980—New York—Houston
We got to Lynn Wyatt’s house, fifty people for dinner, and she had cream of crab soup and then barbecued filet
mignon that’d been marinated for twenty-four hours and hot curried fruit and homemade Rice-a-Roni which Joan
Quinn who was there said was Armenian-style. And creamed spinach and then this great dessert which was fruit
ice cream piled onto a big meringue. And the dinner was for Diane Von Furstenberg and Barry Diller. There were
all these crazy people from Dallas and Fort Worth. They were really rich with big rocks and they were really
vulgar and funny. Divorced and out for kicks.
And then after dinner we went into the living room and everyone loved Lynn’s portrait. Diane said she loved it
so much that she wanted me to do her kids’ portraits, but I know she doesn’t mean it. And then John Travolta
arrived with thirty people. He was going to come to dinner but he wanted to bring thirty people so Lynn had said
no. And he’s so good-looking. He had on a black silk shirt and a bright green linen jacket and black pants, and his
eyes are so blue. He was with this cute little girl and a lot of bodyguards, and with Jim Bridges, who directed
Urban Cowboy. And then there was Debra Winger who’s the female star of the movie, and she’s great, we want to
do something with her. She told me about high colonics and that she’s full of shit. Her family was there, and her
boyfriend. He was cute, Jewish.
And Barbara Allen and Jerry Hall were making fun of ladies with jewels right in front of their faces. And
Maxime Mesinger the gossip columnist came with John Travolta, too, and she gave him a dinner first. Then we got
a ride with Barry and Diane. Barry got mad because Jerry and her sister Cyndy and Fred were so drunk they
wouldn’t let him out of the car at his hotel, and he wasn’t in that good a mood anyway, that’s just how Barry is. He
told Jerry to shut up and she got really hurt. And Fred was pretending to stick his finger up Jerry and her sister and
then sticking it in everybody’s noses.
Thursday, June 5, 1980—Houston
We all went to the Cadillac Bar for lunch which has really good Mexican food. And I was sitting with this crowd
from Dallas-Fort Worth.
I met Travolta at lunch again. Got an autograph on a napkin.
They all have these big Jerry Hall accents. And they all love Jerry because they can talk real Texas with her. We
had frogs’ legs and beef and chicken and shrimps, everything barbecued and chilied and guacamoled. And it was
so hot out, it was like ninety-five degrees. And the air-conditioning broke down and the Texans say, “Turn up the
AC! Maybe you need some freon, Charlie.” And then we went to a few Western shops to get our costumes for the
Urban Cowboy premiere.
We finally got back to the hotel around 5:00. Everyone met in my room. Jerry was wearing a solid gold and
rhinestone skintight cowboy suit with matching hat that George Hamilton gave her that he had worn in the Hank
Williams movie, and she said that Alana wanted it so badly and he never would give it to her and so not to tell
Alana.
Then we got into a limo and went to the Gay Lynn theater, it was named after Lynn Wyatt. And there were
thousands of paparazzi and fans because they’d never had a world premiere in Houston before. And they were
screaming, “Andy! Andy! Andy Warhol!” And Jerry and I were posing for pictures. And then Jerry and Lynn Wyatt
were standing in front of the theater with the TV crew and Lynn was becoming like Barbara Walters: “And now we
have the famous artist, Andy Warhol, and Jerry and Cyndy Hall who’re stars in the movie, and say, Jerry, where’d
you get that costume?” Very professional, she was wearing purple suede with her great figure. And we got in the
theater and sat down and in front of us were Liz Smith and Iris Love in matching cowgirl outfits. And Liz’s
brother, because Liz is from Texas.
And Diane Von Furstenberg was walking up and down the aisles like she owned the place. She was wearing
tight pants and a little top and a vest with a little sheriff’s badge that said “Disco Sucks.” And then she was
wearing two tons of diamond and gold jewelry from the forties. And Barry Diller was sitting right behind us, and
then in walks John Travolta with a thousand people around him, and he sat down right behind us, and everyone
was going crazy with the photographers and stuff, and we were all jumping in with our cameras. And then the
movie started and everyone loved it.
Afterwards we took our limo to Gilley’s where they shot the movie. We left one second early so we got there
before the mob (tip $20 to the driver).
There was a mob scene around where Barry Diller and I were sitting because John Travolta sat down two
inches away. His eyes are just like—dyed—blue-green. I mean, really deep blue. And he has the most beautiful
smile. His teeth must be polished every day. And his skin is beautiful. And he’s so nice. And he says nice things to
everyone. And he was talking the most to this girl he thought was with us, but she was a DVF groupie. And Diane
is so desperate to be recognized that if one person says, “You’re Diane Von Furstenberg, I love you,” she says,
“Come with me,” and she makes them follow her around for the rest of the night so that she can have a following,
and then she gives them presents—she carries lipsticks and compacts with her to give out, and she autographs
them.
And, well, once Travolta was at our table it became really impossible because the crowd just pushed in on us,
and this policeman was standing right behind trying to protect us, and he was drunk, the policeman, and I said,
“Don’t look now, Bob, but you have a big gun and a big cock one inch from your neck.” And the policeman said,
“Can I do anything for you?” and Bob laughed and said, “Just stay right here.” And he did. And he had two guns in
his holster, very good-looking, and he kept hugging us and bumping into us and rubbing his cock against us and
saying, “Is there anything you need, anything you want?” But he was great because he kept screaming to the
waitress and got all this food for us. The whole table. And all these drinks, and beer. And he said, “You’re not
eating your pepper,” to Bob, and Bob said, “Are you kidding? It’s so hot, I only took one bite,” and he said, “Well,
I’ll just show you how to eat a pepper,” and he took the whole big thing and slipped it in his mouth and ate it and
then winked at Bob.
I was the second biggest star after John Travolta. But a distant second. He got the most fans after him. They
were screaming on the stage that everyone was going to have to leave if they didn’t let John Travolta have some
room.
Got home around 1:00. Started to read Princess Daisy, it’s an awful book, but they mention me in it, so it’s
something for the box. It said Daisy was too chic to go to an Andy Warhol party in London.
Saturday, June 21, 1980—New York
A lady from Arizona—someone Edmund Gaultney had arranged—was coming to the office about a portrait (cab
$5). She turned out to be a beautiful girl and she brought her one-year-old baby. The baby gave us a really hard
time. Babies are so hard to photograph, they never sit still and they’re teething or something so they’re scrunching
up their mouths and they’re so cranky and I just hate them. Then Edmund called from Arizona and said that we
should do the baby alone, but by then it was over—I’d only done the baby with the mother and the mother alone.
Dropped Rupert ($5). I glued myself and went to meet Alan Wanzenberg and Stephen Webster, friends of Jed’s.
We went to Inagiku. I’ve been having too much wine lately so I stuck to Perrier and had some raw fish. Alan’s an
architect working for I.M. Pei. And the other kid’s a lawyer and I gave him the job of contesting our tax
assessment because the taxes went from $400 to $12,000 when they combined both Bowery buildings together
which they had no right to do, and the place is just a dump so I don’t know why it’s that high.
Then we went for a nightcap at Trader Vic’s ($25). The headwaiter invited me to his sculpture exhibition next
week. Got home about 1:30.
Sunday, June 22, 1980
Went to church. Went to meet Rupert and got a lot of work done. Redid some paintings—the church in Cologne,
the castle in Bonn, a couple of Germans.
Thomas Ammann called. He asked me if I wanted to have a business dinner and I said good idea. I worked all
afternoon. All the clones were filing into the Underground. They all have mustaches, alligator T-shirts, bluejeans,
or the other look is leather pants and jackets and sunglasses.
Barbara Allen called for who was around and available for what. I told her Thomas Amman was in town and so
she called him and got invited to dinner.
Cabbed to Mr. Chow’s ($4). We were kind of late and Thomas was mad at us. Ran into Rita Lachman on the
way in with her ghostwriter for The Rita Lachman Story. They sat next to us. Alan Wanzenberg the architect and
Stephen Webster the lawyer were there, and Barbara and Fred and Jed and some other girl. Barbara sat next to me
and I kept telling her to bring Bill Paley down for a portrait. Then I happened to mention that Truman said he was
writing a piece on Babe Paley, and then Barbara said she wanted to read it to make sure that it wouldn’t offend Mr.
Paley. She’s so ridiculous. She said Mr. Paley gave her something, something really great, but she wouldn’t say
what—she had each of us confess something, and after we did, she still wouldn’t tell us. She had a whole bottle of
sake to herself. She said she’s madly in love with Mr. Paley, that he’s the only man she loves. But then she was
falling for Thomas because she knows Bianca’s so hot for him.
Monday, June 23, 1980
Got up at 8:00 and watched the Today Show. The new girl is too pretty, I like Jane Pauley better. She’s off getting
married to the “Doonesbury” Trudeau guy who won a portrait by me in a society contest and we kept stalling him
and finally he came up and he wore a hat and scarf and I just did a little nothing portrait because I didn’t realize
who he was.
And I screamed at Ronnie because he got three forty-five-minute phone calls.
Tuesday, June 24, 1980
What’s happening with Richard Pryor? Are the burns getting better or worse?
Worked till 6:30. Fred went up by subway to the Mitzi Newhouse Theater where Bob Wilson’s play was
opening. Curious George. When I got to the theater Fred was there waiting with Katy Jones and her sister. The art-
world people were there. The play had water coming from the ceiling, clocks on the walls telling you what time it
was and striking. It was colored beautifully, the set’s by Bob Wilson. It took at least two hours and then it was
over.
The party afterwards was at Leo Castelli’s. We were the first ones there. The food was good but Chris Makos
said I looked fat, and then I looked over at Fred who never eats and stays looking so good, so I just had one
cucumber and water, and I mixed and mingled.
The Knowles boy, the star of the play, sounds so normal when you talk to him, you wouldn’t know he’s autistic.
He answers whatever question you ask, but I guess the problem is he never says anything if you don’t ask him. I
talked to Jennifer Jakobson about Mr. Ballato dying. He was in his eighties. He worked at the restaurant till the last
minute, he loved the business so much.
Fred tried to get Katy Jones to leave but she’s after Bob Wilson so she didn’t want to. We all waited for Bob
Wilson so we could go in his limo. Richard Weisman was there with Patti LuPone and she was thrilled when I
introduced her to Bob Wilson. She got a Tony, and she was asking me what she should do with her career and I
told her to hang on and stay with Evita for as long as she could because she was the only big star on Broadway and
she would become so huge from it. She said yes, that I was right.
Bob Wilson kept going to the bathroom a lot and coming back depressed. He dropped me and Katy. And as I
was getting out of the car he was saying things like, “Take hold of my hand.” And afterwards I pieced it together,
that when he was saying words like, “Do you think—do you think—” that he was wanting to know if I thought he
was using Christopher Knowles, exploiting him by starring him in plays because he’s autistic. Got home at 2:00.
Wednesday, June 25, 1980
A creep who kept writing me letters came up and Vincent told him I was doing an interview but he refused to
leave, so I mean I knew right away that he was a creep because normal people don’t do that, insist. Right? I was
giving an interview to the Miami Star.
Chris Makos called from his darkroom. I want to go around town with him taking pictures. Nobody’s done
42nd Street and the Statue of Liberty in a while.
Then, when we were leaving the office and we’d locked the elevator and we were getting ready to leave, as I
was walking by the middle room the creepy kid who’d come up earlier jumped out from behind a crate. I mean,
that’s why I always tell Vincent to check around, because people can really hide behind things. And later Adam
Robinson from Oxford who’d stopped by and who was still with us said that he’d seen the box move, but hadn’t
told me. So this kid was hiding behind the box while I was giving the interview to the Miami paper. He said it was
“Performance Art.” I mean, I could tell he was a creep from the beginning. Somehow Vincent got him out, but I
was really rattled. We left, and I dropped Rupert at 7:30 ($5). When we were crossing the street to get the cab,
Rupert and me, a cab stopped and it was Hiram Keller waving and I had to go kiss him in the cab and he looked
absolutely beautiful, like the day we met him, gorgeous and full of life, and I just can’t believe he never became a
big star after Satyricon. Is it because there’s so many beauties now?
A kid I know from Studio 54 called me up and at first I wasn’t going to take the call but he said he’d had a
breakdown in California and that I was the only one he was calling, so I did. He’s going back out to California.
When I got home I was still tense from the intruder so I had a brandy. And that led to the candy drawer, and that
led to the TV all night. I watched the Mother and Daughter Beauty Pageant on TV. And a rerun of Farrah Fawcett.
Bob Wilson’s play got terrible reviews. And I was watching a rerun of Carol Burnett and those people were just
so good, so talented, so funny. I mean, Bob Wilson has an autistic kid and does a few imaginative things, but that’s
all. I mean it’s like when you see Carol Burnett you think how nothing a thing like Bob Wilson’s is.
Thursday, June 26, 1980
There were some interesting things to look at at the P-B 84 Warehouse on 91st Street (cab $4). Met Stuart Pivar
there and saw a lot of paintings. A Liz was sitting there, and there was a Pollock, too. They told me this one
painting was by the “boyfriend of Seurat,” but I didn’t know Seurat had a boyfriend. The guys there all wanted my
autograph, so I did them.
The new issue of the magazine arrived and Godunov looks good on the cover but he looks like a Christopher
Street person, I don’t know if it’ll sell.
Steve Rubell called Barbara Allen and John Bowes-Lyons and then said he was being moved to Atlanta.
And Joe Dallesandro called Fred for money—I guess he wants to be supported for life—and I screamed at
Fred, I told him to tell Joe to ask Paul. Joe wants money just so that he can sit around, I guess, and drink a bottle of
Jack Daniel’s a day.
And Vicky Leacock came by. She’s Ricky Leacock’s daughter. She said that her mother had just died—her
mother was a model in the fifties—and that she was going up to Boston to stay with her father. She just came by
because she was sort of upset. Her mother’s kidneys weren’t functioning well and Vicky took her to New York
Hospital and the people there were awful—they were arguing with each other and while they were bickering Vicky
looked and saw that her mother’s eyes were open and staring, and she told the doctor and he said, “She’s dozed
off,” and Vicky tried to revive her and then they tried but they couldn’t. Vicky just stayed at the office a few
minutes and then she left.
Friday, June 27, 1980
We went to John Addison’s new club, Bonds, the huge clothes store on Broadway that they turned into a disco. We
looked around for him but the place is huge and we didn’t see him. It was free, but I tipped the waiter ($20). The
stairs are musical. It’s very beautiful.
Saturday, June 28, 1980
I called Bob to see if the interview with Paloma Picasso was on—it was, Lester Persky was going to do it at Quo
Vadis. And Paloma really likes Patti LuPone, so we called to see if there was still a table for us at her show at Les
Mouches.
I walked over to Quo Vadis. I was there first, then Bob arrived, then Lester and Paloma. I was on my diet so I
just had melon and arugula, but the chicken that Bob and Paloma split looked good. What do restaurants do with
the meat that’s left like on the backbone? Do they throw it out or do they use it to make hash?
Lester interviewed Paloma and she’s great, she just tells everything. And she said that we could do the end
portion of the interview at the MOMA Picasso exhibit with her and she’ll talk while we walk through. After dinner
we went to Un Deux Trois, the place on 44th Street that’s supposed to be like La Coupole.
Then it was too early to go to Bonds. So we went to Les Mouches. And they made Bob pay. Bob still hated
Patti LuPone, but not quite as much. If she had come over and said, “Oh Bob, you’re the editor of Interview I love
Intervieni” he would have loved her. I’m the same way, though, I guess. And Ron Duguay was there. At first he
wasn’t interested in Patti—these athletes all just like the same blonde types all the time—but I told him, “She
really wants you and she’s great.” And afterwards she came and sat with him. Patti’s funny, she does these
sophisticated songs and then she gets nervous so she sticks out her tongue like Donald Duck or something. I like
her, I think she’s great.
Monday, June 30, 1980
A little man from Munich arrived at 4:00 to see his portrait and he was startled when he saw it, it had so much
character. Because Fred’s been telling me not to take out the wrinkles and everything too much on these old
people, that it’s nice to leave some in. So the man from Munich had red veins but I made them black, and I gave
him bright clothes colors whereas he underplays his clothes. I made his daughter really beautiful, though, really
elegant. And Fred was really nervous when the man was looking at them because he felt responsible for the look.
The guy was cute, though, really nice.
Stephen Mueller and Ronnie were there, stretching. Robyn was trying to sell a portfolio to two ladies he’d
picked up the night before and he sold one print at a discount and he was thrilled. I was at the office till 7:00.
Cabbed ($2.10) to 76th Street and Fifth to Leonard Stern’s. He’s the Hartz-Mountain guy. He just got the house
and it wasn’t air-conditioned, and it was odd meeting him at 8:00 because it wasn’t for dinner, although we’d
thought it was going to be. He wants two very big Flower paintings for two walls and he wants them by September
16th because he’s having a party then. He just left his wife. She’s keeping the house on Park in the 70s which he
renovated eight years ago. It was embarrassing because I called him Mr. Stein and Fred called him Mr. Stein, too.
When he was finished with us we went around the corner and decided to stop in at Barbara Allen’s on 77th Street.
She had Whitney Tower there and he’s put on weight, he’s trying to be not so skinny and crazy because he wants
his grandmother who’s a Whitney to give him some dough. You know these rich kids go and say, “Oh Granny
darling, it costs money to get married and have children and do all the things you’d like to see me do.”
Tuesday, July 1, 1980
Got up early in the morning in order to meet Bob in order to meet Paloma and Lester at MOMA (cab $3). We went
around the exhibit with Paloma, she was talking and Lester was being funny, and it was exhausting, it’s three
floors. A guy in a wheelchair asked me for my autograph, and I said, “Don’t you want Paloma Picasso’s?” And he
said yes, so Paloma signed and then I signed and then we had to leave because Paloma had to get back to Tiffany’s
where they sell her jewelry.
Old Mrs. Newhouse came to see the portraits of her husband, but her son was with her and he fell in love with
the diamond-dust ones.
Oh, and David Whitney came by, we’re talking to him about maybe redoing the Jewish Museum show and I’m
doing a portrait of him because he’s been so nice. He brought his tux, he really looked cute in it. He invited me to
Thursday dinner with Philip Johnson, he said he’ll send a car for me, that anyone as big as I am should have a car
—he was being funny.
Brigid went on a candy binge. She said she was going out for cigarettes but Robyn noticed that she took more
money than she’d need for cigarettes, so when she got back I said, “I see chocolate on your mouth.” I didn’t really
see any, but that worked and she admitted she’d had ice cream.
Glued myself together and went to Côte Basque to help Suzie Frankfurt celebrate—she just got almost a
million for her house and she bought a cheaper one. Mr. and Mrs. Law arrived. I think Mrs. Law is Standard Oil
rich and I don’t know exactly what her husband does, maybe he invests her money. That’s what usually happens
when you marry a rich woman. Or maybe he’s rich himself, who knows. She wants me to retouch her portrait
because now she’s made her hair lighter. It’ll probably turn out to be one of those “living portraits” where I have to
to keep doing things to it.
We went over to Bonds. And John Samuels was there and he’s so mean to me now. I think he tries to be nice,
but he can’t help himself, he says mean things. I’ll have to ask him why. We were there for a few minutes. Mr. Law
was dancing around and his wife said that he would get a heart attack. Oh, and Bob was there and he looked so
sour. He feels he can’t have fun unless he has a drink. And he and Fred are the same—if there’s no princes, they
look so bored.
Thursday, July 3, 1980
Was picked up by Philip Johnson and David Whitney to go to La Côte Basque. They had martinis and so I did, too.
Philip’s doing the new AT&T building at 56th on Madison. After dinner we went up to the apartment where David
and Philip are living on Fifth, opposite the Met, the one that Philip did the front of. And Philip and David are
unhappy with their apartment—it’s small, there’s no room for paintings, but they have my Cows in the bedroom
and twenty Jasper Johns prints up. I like the apartment, it’s neat and orderly. David’s really good about throwing
things out—if he buys five new shirts he throws five old ones away. And their places always have nothing in them,
no knick-knacks, no flowers, no food in the refrigerator. Oh, but I did see some underwear on a chair, and I was
going to say something about it because it was the first time I’ve ever seen a piece of clutter in their apartment.
Their limo dropped us.
Friday, July 4, 1980
Cab to meet Debbie Harry at 7:30 at her and Chris Stein’s apartment at 200 West 58th Street. The penthouse. It
took an hour to get there because everybody was merging into Central Park for the fireworks later at 9:00. The
traffic was really bad (cab $4). When we got there Chris and Victor Bockris had their tapes on. Debbie has
beautiful eyes.
Debbie had worked all day trying to find an interesting place to have dinner, and (laughs) she did. We went up
to 119th Street and Morningside Drive to that restaurant with the big view. The food was as good as La Côte
Basque. I don’t know how people up there can afford it, though, because it’s so expensive. Maybe doctors and
professors.
But first we had drinks at Debbie’s. She’s gotten really rich from the Vanderbilt jeans ad and they’re going to
buy a building. Chris wants to rent an apartment on the Lower East Side to give interviews in because they don’t
want to spoil their low-life image, and Debbie will have to give interviews there, too. I think he’s really going to
do it. But if you saw their apartment—and he’s saying he doesn’t want people to know how (laughs) well they live.
It’s so junky. It seems like one room made into eighteen rooms. Maybe it used to be a storage floor. There are at
least 100 gold records on the wall, I don’t know why there’s so many—oh, maybe duplicates, I guess. But there’s a
good doorman.
Saturday, July 5, 1980
Had an appointment to meet Rupert. Nobody was in town so it was an easy cab ride ($4.50). I was doing Flower
paintings again and it was so sweltering and I got a funny feeling, like a flashback to 1964 because it was the same
Flowers and the same heat and the same mood as when I first made them that summer. I asked Rupert how it felt to
see me painting these famous sixties images. He said it didn’t feel like anything. But to me it did. These are a
commission. I’ll do something different with them, though—maybe put diamond dust on them.
John Reinhold called and invited me to see his apartment that Michael Graves just did. It was raining like crazy.
Henry Geldzahler was meeting us for dinner at a place called Petit Robert, which sounded familiar, but I didn’t
want to think about it. It turned out that it was the restaurant of Robert Biret who I’ve known since 1948. He gave
me work at Glamour and Bonwit Teller and he was my best friend, we used to have dinner together in the fifties. I
met Halston for the first time at his house. Then Robert left New York and went to Paris. This place is way over on
11th Street. I talked mostly to Robert, he looks pretty good. We talked about our mothers. I think his went back to
France. There was a lot of garlic in the food. I ate cooked beef with garlic and later I was sorry, I could feel it in
the morning, still.
Sunday, July 6, 1980
I got up and was trying to avoid Tom Sullivan’s calls. He’s been making up stories about friends being in the
hospital and needing a few dollars so I think he’s out of money. I think he maybe spent everything he had on
Cocaine Cowboys. I mean, if he only had a couple of million it wouldn’t’ve lasted him long the way he was living
so high on the hog, traveling every minute.
I glued myself and went to Mt. Sinai to visit Sandy Brant who’s expecting triplets, 101st and Fifth. Cabbed ($3)
up Madison and it seems like they’re reclaiming some of the blocks as white. They’re putting up tall buildings and
the whites are slowly moving uptown. They’re selling apartments there for a couple of hundred thousand now.
We weren’t going to tell Sandy about the fire at their stable in Greenwich that destroyed the stable and nine
horses, but she told us about it. They think it might have been set. There’s a guard there twenty-four hours a day
now. They didn’t have a sprinkler system. We were there about forty-five minutes, till 9:00. Then worked at home.
No phone calls. I watched the all-day news on Ted Turner’s station.
The weather changed and was cool and windy and beautiful, my hair was flying all over. Fred went out to
Manhasset with the Paysons for a big house party that Averil was giving for the Fourth of July weekend at
Greentree.
Wednesday, July 9, 1980—Paris
Went to Castel’s for dinner and we sat downstairs and we ran into Jean, the boyfriend of Clara Sant, and Clara told
Fred that her boyfriend had had a bad time at our studio in New York because we didn’t pay much attention to him.
He didn’t understand that that was our style, that everybody gets ignored, but then I was sorry we didn’t really
make an effort, like have a lot of beautiful girls and interesting people for him, because when people are really nice
to us in Europe we should pay them back in New York. I paid for dinner, and it was expensive ($400).
Thursday, July 10, 1980—Paris—Monte Carlo
I didn’t sleep a wink that night because we left Fred drinking at Castel’s and I knew he wouldn’t be able to get us
up in the morning so I had two cups of coffee. And then about 6:00 I heard fumbling at the door and it was Fred
trying to get his keys into the lock and it took him half an hour to make it in, and I was going to get up and tell him
off but I was in a stupor.
It was raining, horrible and grey and cold, really freezing. We were going to Monte Carlo for the joint show of
Jamie Wyeth and me. Finally we got there and it was sunny and beautiful. And the first people we ran into were
Pam Combemale—her unmarried name is Woolworth—and Jamie Wyeth, they had just come in on the Concorde.
And they’d lost Jamie’s clothes and Phyllis’s luggage, so she had nothing to wear.
Went down to the lobby at 6:00 and saw the exhibition, they were putting it together. I did an interview for
Time magazine, and then we went to this restaurant that looks just like Trader Vic’s, called Mona’s. The Portanovas
were there, and Liz Smith and Iris Love, and the Larsens, and there was a lot of dancing going on and Jamie was
so great, he was dancing with Phyllis and I was drunk so I went over to them and I fell down. With them. And then
I was dancing with everybody else—all the girls—and it was a new thing for me. I’d had two vodkas, and that
must have set me off.
Jamie’s so much fun because he’s a troublemaker. He’s always saying mean things about people—like he said
this one lady’s pockmarks made her face look like a used dartboard. He just goes right down the line tearing
everybody apart, he’s very funny.
Friday, July 11, 1980—Monte Carlo
We picked up Jamie and Phyllis and I apologized to Phyllis for pushing her over the night before. I told her she
and Jamie were dancing so beautifully that I got jealous. When I started to dance with Phyllis I didn’t know that
she can’t go backwards so I fell on her and then Jamie fell on her, and we were all caught by somebody but it was
just too nutty. So I apologized and we all got in the car and went out to Cap Ferrât to see Lynn Wyatt who now has
Somerset Maugham’s old house, the Villa Mauresque that I just read about in the biography, and it was just
everything I really wanted to see and look at. It took us a while to get there, the traffic was bad.
Lynn was wearing a dress that was split up the sides and you could see all her breasts and she just had a little
bikini on and she looked beautiful, she has a great body. I think she was trying to get Jamie excited. And they have
sort of the same last name. Everybody thinks it’s her son who’s having a show there.
And then Sandra Hochman walked in and she was just so boring, rattling on and on, she told me she’s had a
boyfriend who’s just bought an apartment in Monte Carlo. She said he discovered fast food—he owns Tad’s Steak
Houses—and she told me any time I wanted to give a chic party there she’d fix it up for me.
I asked Lynn to do an interview for Interview because David Niven and his wife came in and I told David that
I’d just been reading all about him in the papers because he’s been suing David Merrick. He was great-looking, he
was so thin, and his wife was pencil-thin. And Sandra was just yapping away about all her books and she was so
pushy we couldn’t understand how she knew Lynn and it turns out she went to Bennington with her.
David Niven was so cute, he told us good stories and Jamie fell in love with him. Then we had to get back to
the hotel because we were meeting Princess Grace at 4:00 in the lobby to show her the exhibition, it was down in
one of the dining rooms.
We went up to our rooms and glued ourselves together, and then we came down. Just Jamie and Phyllis and
Freddy Woolworth and Fred were invited, Jed was still at the beach. And we had to get in line to meet Princess
Grace. I was the first one, and we were just all making funny jokes about standing in line and finally when we
turned around there she was, and she had a little tummy. We were supposed to kiss her hand but I refused to kiss
her hand and so we shook hands, and she didn’t really like me, she just liked Jamie. And then when Grace found
out that Phyllis was a big du Pont, she was really social climbing, so she was really nice. And then we had to go
show her the pictures, and I was trying to be funny but it just didn’t go over too well. And we chit-chatted about
Cousteau and the fish museum that’s up near her palace and Jamie said that his father knew her father, they live in
New Jersey now, they don’t live in Philadelphia. And we were talking about, I don’t know, just really boring
things, she never let her hair down. And I told her that I heard she paints, and she said she just does collages, she
had a big show in France that was a sell-out. And I asked her what else was she doing, and finally she told me that
she’s on the lecture circuit in the United States reading poetry. She does a circuit tour like Truman for a couple of
weeks so she brings home the bucks. And finally after forty-five minutes of chitchat she decided to go. And when
she left she thought the security guard that has the revolver and watches the paintings for the Coe Kerr Gallery was
Freddy Woolworth. So it was really funny, she told him she loved the show.
Fred and I had to go upstairs because I was doing a portrait. Mrs. Benedetti, who thought she looked like
Marilyn Monroe. And I made her take off her clothes and put on white makeup. She kept posing like Marilyn with
her mouth open and stuff and she was old, but she came out really easy, I had my contacts in and I couldn’t really
see but everything was fine.
Went off to a couple of cocktail parties down at the Loews, which is a hotel that was decorated by Sharon
Hammond’s mother Mrs. Long but they have private apartments there, too. Douglas Cooper was giving a party and
this lady named Madame Plesch—Ettie Plesch—was giving one, too, and they’re not talking to each other so you
had to be careful and not say that you went to the other one.
Then Regine invited us all down to Jimmy’z and John Larsen was there with his wife and he’s that really great
guy, an old friend of Edie Sedgwick’s and mine from years ago, and now he’s really Jamie’s friend. He and Jamie
are great dancers. And it was getting late and I was tired. And then Bo Polk arrived and he brought this beautiful
girl along with him and then Phyllis saw Jamie dancing cheek-to-cheek with the girl and she went up to them on
the dance floor and hit Jamie with her cane. And he got embarrassed because he was really dancing close.
I got home and I didn’t have a key so I had to wake the chambermaid and so she put me in, it was about 3:00.
Saturday, July 12, 1980—Monte Carlo
Ran into Sylvester Stallone who cut his beard and looks great, he just flew in from Budapest with his wife, and I
told him I wanted to do his portrait over again without the beard because he looks so handsome. And so he was
going to come up about 6:00 so I could rephotograph him.
Then I ran into him again, on the beach, and all the people on the beach were taking pictures of him. He looked
so great without clothes on, he’s pencil-thin, he looks like a muscle man, like Mr. America with small biceps, and I
told him not to ever put any more weight on again. But he was saying he had to because he had to do Rocky III and
so I told him to do a fat suit. And so we left to go back to the hotel to refresh ourselves and wait for him to come.
Then I glued myself together because it was time to get ready to go down to the opening of the show in the lobby. I
was ready before anyone else so I decided I might as well go down and work, so I got downstairs about five
minutes after 7:00 and Pam Combemale and Freddy Woolworth were standing there greeting people and I was
next in line and I shook hands with everybody coming in, like a receiving line. They would introduce me and there
were all these old bags, I mean, the oldest people in the world. And then Jamie came down and he was next to me
and we went down the line and in it was Raymond Loewy! The guy who designed the Lucky Strike cigarette
package and everything else! I was just so thrilled to meet him that I just jumped up and down and asked him if I
could take his picture. And he was great. And then the old bags, there were just so many of them I couldn’t believe
it. I think we got some portraits to do so that’s great. Then Stallone came all in white, and he looked really
beautiful, and then Iris Love and Liz Smith came, and Liz said it was the chic-est party opening they’d ever been
to.
Mary Richardson came and Kerry Kennedy and Mona Christiansen and a cute little girl Vicky, who’s the
daughter of Frank Gifford. Mona told a story of how Garbo picked her up on Madison Avenue a couple of weeks
ago and took her home for tea, but then, she said nothing happened, they just compared face jaw-lines. I don’t
believe her but it was fun to hear. Mona was feeling up all the girls, really feeling them up.
Sunday, July 13, 1980—Monte Carlo
Fred picked me up and we went down to Stallone’s room to photograph him, he’d been switched from his big suite
to a smaller room and he was complaining. He was in his blue bikini. We finished the pictures, we only took three
rolls, and chit-chatted and then we got a little nervous and we left. We invited him to dinner but he said he was
busy.
Monday, July 14, 1980—Monte Carlo
Murray Brant just called to say that Sandy Brant had triplets and the boy weighed five and a half pounds and the
two girls weighed five pounds each.
We were going to a cocktail party at Donina Cicogna’s and all the girls were downstairs and it was so much
fun, you run into everybody in the lobby, and so we cabbed to her place (cabs $30). And when we got there it was
too crowded and Lady Rothermere was there and we picked up a real cute old friend of Fred’s named David
Rocksavage, he’s an earl, one of the richest kids in England. Then we went to Jimmy’z.
Mona and I were bored so we decided to look for Prince Albert, we knew that he’d be around someplace, so we
went searching and just couldn’t find him, so I said something like, “Oh shit, we just can’t find Prince Albert,” and
he was standing right in back of me. So Mona got really aggressive with him and said we really loved him and
wanted to get to know him, she pushed her way right in, and I said, “Do you want to meet all these great girls like
Kerry Kennedy?” and he said no. Then Regine caught our eye and she ran and got drinks and shoved them all in
our hands, and Prince Albert sat there and drank all of his drinks and just ignored us. Then Regine was smart
enough to know what to do, she went down and got the kids like Kerry and Mary Richardson and brought them up
and we introduced them, and Mona stepped on Prince Albert’s toe and he said, “Do it again.” And then he said he
was not staying, he had to meet somebody and they were going over to Paradise. And Mona and I said we’d go
over and see them there, so we were really excited because we’d worked so hard to get this far. And I didn’t bring
my tape recorder because I was wearing Jed’s jacket and he wouldn’t let me put anything in it because it stretches
the pockets. And so I couldn’t tape.
Then we went over to Paradise and there was Prince Albert and Mona grabbed him and really tried to hustle
him again but he said he had to play soccer the next day early, so he had to leave, and we were stuck.
Tuesday, July 15, 1980—Monte Carlo
São Schlumberger invited us and the girls and Rocksavage and Warren Adelson from the Coe Kerr Gallery and his
wife LaTrelle and her little son to Cap Ferrat, to the little house she was renting. I was just starved, I hadn’t had
anything since breakfast so I just began eating everything and photographing, the house was pretty and had a
beautiful view. We were there till 5:00. And Mona was going to St. Tropez and the girls were going to Venice to
stay at Gianni Volpi’s palace, but Kerry was having to wait for her brother and Vicky Gifford for her boyfriend.
Which are the same person.
Wednesday, July 16, 1980—Monte Carlo
French TV came and asked me how did it feel to come “from the underground” to this glamorous place, and I told
them they were full of baloney because I’d come here so many times and it wasn’t “from the underground.” And
then I did a radio program and then I ran upstairs and found that Jed had gotten the copy of L’Uomo Vogue with
me on the cover which makes me look so awful, and there were a lot of good-looking people inside wearing
bluejeans.
We divided up in cars and went out to have lunch with Hélène Rochas and Juliette Greco’s sister Charlotte and
her architect husband. Everybody went swimming and we had bullshots and they were so great, and then we had
lunch, the best fish I ever had, the best food, it was just so glamorous, breaded fish with anise, and then we had
anise down by the swimming pool and we dished everybody. And then we left around 5:00 and Rocksavage
dropped us off.
There was a birthday dinner for Lynn Wyatt but I haven’t bought her anything yet. Johnny Carson was going to
be there and I couldn’t wait to meet him. We ran into Maxime Mesinger in the lobby, she’s that wonderful gossip
reporter from Houston, she came here just for Lynn’s birthday party.
Got dressed, cabbed to Lynn’s in Cap Ferrat ($35). We thought we’d be early but we weren’t. We got there and
Estée Lauder was there and Lynn took me around to introduce me to people. And the first person she introduced
me to was Johnny Carson. That was really exciting. He’s not short. He’s tall. He has grey hair and he looks so
healthy. I took lots of pictures of him. And his wife Joanna is beautiful, she used to be a model with Norell so we
dished the dresses and fashion and junk like that and I didn’t take any pictures, I was just too—I thought it would
be too much. Everybody was too scared to sit at the Johnny Carson table but David Niven sat with him and we sat
with Liz Smith who was sitting at the last table by the swimming pool. And then the king or prince of Yugoslavia
said he had a Mao painting of mine.
Everybody sang “Happy Birthday” to Lynn and then they had great fireworks, all the way around. A lot of
sparkles and pink smoke and really loud firecrackers.
There’s so much in the papers about Ronald Reagan and it looks like he’s on his way to become president, it
does look scary. I voted once. In the fifties, I don’t remember which election. I pulled the wrong lever because I
was confused, I couldn’t figure out how to work the thing. There was no practice model outside, it was a church on
35th Street between Park and Lex. This was when I was living at 242 Lexington. And then I got called for jury
duty and I wrote back: “Moved.” I’ve never voted again.
Saturday, July 19, 1980—Paris
Pierre Berge never called back.
Went over to the Flore but it was closed. Deux Magots was open so we sat around there, hoping that Shirley
Goldfarb would come by, but Shirley is I guess rehearsing for her big show that Pierre is giving Thursday night for
her where she’ll sing the menu of every restaurant in Paris. She’s doing it in Pierre’s theater, and he wanted us to
stay on and see her. She’s going to sing, in addition to the menus, songs like “Merry Christmas” and “Auld Lang
Syne,” and I think it’s going to be a big trauma because I think she’s really going to do it seriously and it’s going to
be so horrible. I think it sounds funnier than it’s going to be, unless she can really do a lot of good menus.
Monday, July 21, 1980—Paris—New York
The plane left right at 11 A.M. when it’s supposed to and when it does that, it’s just perfect. The food is getting sort
of boring, though. And they serve it too fast. You’re finished in an hour and a half and you have all that time to sit
around and get edgy. And I stole so much silverware and I was afraid about customs, I don’t know if you’re
allowed to take them in or not. Got to customs, and although I didn’t beep coming through the thing this guy took
me to a room and had me empty my pockets and I had my vitamins on me, I don’t like them to go through the
beeper, and he was feeling them all up, and then he went through my shoes and pulled down my socks, and then he
said, “What’s that?” when he saw my other drugs, my painkillers, and when I was trying to explain what they
were, he got impatient and said, “Oh, go away.” I’m really going to be careful what I take with me because I can
just see them going through all my wigs and asking me why I have so many.
We went from the freezing cold of Paris to 101 degrees in New York and it was a shockeroo. That’s a Diana
Vreeland word (cab $40).
Tuesday, July 22, 1980
I met someone on the street who said wasn’t it great that we’re going to have a movie star for president, that it was
so Pop, and (laughs) when you think about it like that, it is great, it’s so American. But they never talk about
Reagan’s divorce. I thought you weren’t supposed to be able to get elected president if you were divorced.
Worked till 7:30, dropped Rupert off (cab $5). Whitney Tower called and said he wanted to talk about some
movie ideas and he invited me for drinks. The rain had started. And then my bell rang and it was Whitney and
Averil and Rachel Ward. I’d put the dogs to bed and that woke them up. I left the kids outside on the doorstep in
the rain while I got myself together and then we walked to Le Relais. John Samuels was at the bar, he was going
off to Suzie Frankfurt’s for dinner—she was giving a dinner for John’s father and his boyfriend.
Whitney invited me to the Adirondacks. They were up there over the weekend and they said Mick was there
diapering a baby and they said he was an expert at it, that Bianca never did it, and he said he’d done Jade all the
time.
Oh, and the best thing was the thank-you notes that Jerry Hall sent for her birthday presents. I got one and Jed
got the exact same one and Averil got the exact same one. It’s in this little baby handwriting and on flowered
notepaper and it says the exact same thing on all of them, line for line, space for space, word for word. (laughs) I
should call up everybody who gave her a present and collect the notes from them and make a book out of it. That
would be funny, wouldn’t it?
Thursday, July 24, 1980
Rupert brought the proofs for the prints by that he’d taken it upon himself to finish completely without ever
showing them to me. He tried to be artistic and he sure was, he sure was. This is the Shoes with the diamond dust.
He had them completely finished, with the diamond dust on and everything. I don’t know why he did that. I’m
doing shoes because I’m going back to my roots. In fact, I think maybe I should do nothing but (laughs) shoes
from now on.
Saturday, July 26, 1980
Up at 7:30, glued myself and was meeting Rupert at 11:15 at the office (cab $4.50). I went to the farmers’ market
in Union Square to freshen supplies ($18). There were lots of new trucks, I can’t tell which are the real farmers and
which are the people who buy the stuff someplace else and bring it there. I think the real farmers (laughs) are the
ones where the vegetables just look ugly—like beat-up and deformed and wormy—things that look like they’re
from your backyard. Worked at the office from 12:00 to 7:30.
Sunday, July 27, 1980
Up at 7:30, watched TV. Rupert called, I was supposed to go to work but the weather made me tired so I stayed
home and went through magazines and books. Watched the death of the Shah on TV all day on the all-day cable
news channel. I didn’t know that one of the Shah’s sisters had a house built by I.M. Pei in Tehran, they showed it
and it was really beautiful with a dining room. I wonder who she gave dinners for. The palace that we were in was
just a dump.
Monday, July 28, 1980
I’ve just been reading Gloria Swanson’s book about sugar and she has me in it as the prime example of evil
because she read the Philosophy book and interviews with me talking about how much candy I eat. She said the
reason we lost the war in Vietnam is sugar, and that everywhere Americans go they bring Coca-Cola and fake
orange drinks and then take the good rice and de-rice it. And it did make sense, so I’m going to try not to eat so
much sugar.
The Donahue Show was on the flasher problem. This is a big important new problem, right? Men who flash. A
wife and her husband who flashed were on, they were in the dark, and businessmen and lawyers who flashed.
At the office Arma Andón from CBS called and invited me to dinner at the Russian Tea Room and then on to
see Eddie Money at Trax. Then after I said yes, Vincent told me that I had an early dinner for the North American
Watch thing at the Pierre. And they usually don’t take long, there’s speeches and it’s over quickly so I thought I
could do both. Worked, then dropped Rupert (cab $5). Glued myself and walked to the Pierre. Walter Cronkite was
going in with his wife, he was the head speaker, he’s on vacation from the news now. Gerry Grinberg met me and
put me next to a girl who had to know who I was, I mean, my place card was there and everything, but she was
saying things as if I were Truman Capote, like, “I still use your list from the Black and White Masked Ball for
invitations.” So either she thought I was Truman or she thought the Black and White party was mine. And I always
hate to make a person wrong, so I tried to change the subject but she kept going back to it.
Then it was 9:30 and by this time I was supposed to be at the Russian Tea Room. But then Walter Cronkite
started to talk and it was so interesting. He told a Rolex story about how the Rolex guy gave him a watch and he
went to interview President Johnson, and all of a sudden Johnson was looking at his wrist and said, “That damn
guy said that only presidents get that watch.” And then after that that’s all Johnson could think about and he
couldn’t answer any questions.
Finally at 11:00 I was able to slip away. Because the thing was I was right up front and I just couldn’t leave
before that. Outside I couldn’t get a cab so I ran all the way to the Russian Tea Room and I almost had a heart
attack and then when I got there, the man said they’d already left, but I was glad when I heard “they,” it meant
Arma had somebody with him, probably Fred, who I’d sent because I thought I might be a little late. So cabbed to
Trax ($3) which I couldn’t find and I walked all over and finally found it.
Don Mahoney, Eddie Money’s brother, who’s a cop, came out and introduced Eddie, and the brother is so good-
looking, I really liked him. Then Eddie Money sang, and he’s just great, like a singing John McEnroe. And he’s so
familiar, like somebody from Max’s, that type, I just feel like we know him, I think. Vitas was there, and Richard
Weisman. And I just know Vitas dyes his hair and sets it in rollers, he thinks he’s losing it, the look. Then we met
Eddie Money and he was cute, he said he was rooting for me at Columbus Hospital in ‘68 when I was shot because
he was a cop then at the precinct right around the corner. Then Fred was tired, he’d come in that morning on the
Concorde.
Tuesday, July 29, 1980
It was Fred’s birthday and Richard Weisman was giving him a surprise party and the phone kept ringing all day
and Robyn was having to invite people and not let Fred know, so the whole day was whispering.
Dropped Vincent (cab $4.50). Suzie Frankfurt said that I had to be at her house there on time, at 8:00, because
it was a surprise party. Got there at 8:55. Every kid from the office and their date was there.
Fred came in and he was really surprised, he was shocked. John Samuels was there and he was sweet, he
invited me out to his father’s house on Long Island that used to belong to J.P. Morgan. John Scribner was there,
and D.D. Ryan. And Eddie Money came with Vitas and Arma Andón. A girl came out of a cake for $500 and it was
a big dud. A big nothing—Suzie was complaining about the price. Richard paid. Averil sent a singing telegram.
She was there, though. She was drunk and tongue-kissing me and she got mad because I wouldn’t tongue-kiss her
back. The two Frankfurt kids were here. I sat in the kitchen eating good kosher sandwiches.
Curley was the real drunk of the party. Diana Vreeland didn’t come, she was too tired. Patti LuPone was there
and her brother with his wife, he’s really good-looking. I tried to tape some of the birthday song but it was too
noisy. Jay Johnson and Susan were there, and Tom Cashin who’s leaving The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas this
week. He’s going to California to play the role out there. I got fat eating sandwiches.
Wednesday, July 30, 1980
They were having a costume auction at Sotheby’s at 1:00 and one of the things in the auction was a costume I’d
done in the sixties for the Dalton twins—the “This Side Up” dress. Sotheby’s just had it thrown in with the other
clothes, they didn’t realize I’d done it. If somebody had put it in a frame it could have sold for $10,000 but
somebody’s probably going to get it for $25. It’s the last thing in the auction.
Mr. Stern called and said he was coming down at 5:30 to look at his Flower paintings. They’re diamond-dust
fluorescent.
Friday, August 1, 1980
I had an appointment to meet the new Lone Ranger, Klinton Spilsbury, at the office. Robert Hayes and I were
going to interview him. He’s on TV tonight and I think I’ll take a look. He was really good-looking. Long hair,
6’5", and a face that’s a cross between Warren Beatty and Clint Eastwood. He had a bottle of wine. He was an art
student, he said, out in California and he was married and had a little baby, but his wife—she was rich—she left
him, he said, because he needed too much time (laughs) with his own thoughts. He was making movies, directing,
and then he said he wanted to know how it felt to be an actor, so he took acting lessons and then an agent saw him
and he went out for a part, and they gave him the first one, the Lone Ranger. But he didn’t want to sign at first
because it included all the extra things he’d have to do, like wear the costume and sing things, but then they took
that stuff out. He said he modeled once, that he didn’t really want to but someone had just asked him to, so he did.
Then he was really drunk and gave me his belt. Then he started really talking, he told me that he’d been at Studio
54 and I’d gone over and said, “You have to be careful, you’re dancing with a drag queen.” Klinton said he’s a
friend of Dennis Christopher’s, he fell in love with Dennis Christopher and then with that kid Bud Cort, who was
in Harold and Maude. Then he said he’d been picked up by Halston and woke up in bed with Halston. And it was
nutty, he was telling me all this and blowing his whole image.
My “This Side Up” dress went for $450 at the auction.
Saturday, August 2, 1980
There was a big rainstorm but it didn’t cool off the city. Picked up John Reinhold for dinner, we went to Côte
Basque. Left the place and I had a dish from the restaurant that I’d stolen and I dropped it on the street and it broke
and then suddenly the police were there—they were down the street and they thought they heard a window break.
But they recognized me and said, “Oh all right, Mr. Warhol.” It could have been bad. They could have taken me to
the precinct.
Sunday, August 3, 1980
I got dressed and walked in the heat to church. I was going to go to work but it was so hot, I didn’t want to see
anybody. It was Archie’s birthday and he’s eight or nine or even older. I gave him a box of Hartz Mountain treats.
Tuesday, August 5, 1980
Missed watching the Today Show with Truman but it sounds like it was the same old thing. Brigid tried to get
Truman on the phone but he had it off the hook. The review of Music for Chameleons in the Times didn’t mention
that some of the stories were from Interview.
Halston wanted to give me a party for my birthday but I said I was going to the theater with Stephen Graham.
I’m going to invite Susan Johnson for him because he likes dumb girls. I wonder if they’ll hit it off. No, she won’t
like him.
Halston gave me a whole box of ugly shoes for my birthday.
Wednesday, August 6, 1980
It was my birthday but I hadn’t slept all night so at 7 A.M. I took a sleeping pill, but it acted more like an up. I
really feel like an old-timer this time. I can’t believe I’m so old because that means (laughs) that Brigid’s old, too.
It’s too abstract. I can’t even squish a roach anymore because it’s just like a life, like living. I glued myself together
and wanted to walk. Got a lot of phone calls about my birthday. Todd Brassner called and I told him to come down
and bring me a present, but he didn’t. Victor Hugo sent orchids with beautiful ribbons. From Renny, that must be a
very chic place.
I had an appointment with Chris Makos at 860 (cab $5.50). Then the kids kept coming by. Curley brought me a
piece of junk, an airplane light. I asked him to stay for lunch.
Richard Weisman called to say he was coming down. I said I was going to 65 Irving for lunch, and to meet us
there. We went over, ten of us. Pingle—the Princess Ingeborg Schleswig-Holstein—came, who works at Interview
now. She’s related to Queen Elizabeth. And Brigid came. We were having piña coladas and then strawberry
daiquiris and then Richard had the idea to have blueberry daiquiris. It was fun.
Rupert gave me 300 ties. Robert Hayes gave me a silver set of Elvis records, every record he ever made. Mimi
Trujillo brought two dresses to show me and Victor made her give them to me, they’re great. Then I had to go to
the theater. Halston sent a singing telegram that had three people singing it. They were awful. They’re trying to be
in show business and I asked them not to exaggerate it and to sing it quietly. Halston sent a big cake in the shape of
a shoe and it must have been the best cake because Brigid ate all of it.
I glued and was late but then Susan Johnson was even later and I screamed at her. Stephen was already inside
on the aisle when we got there. Annie was wonderful (cab $6). It was packed, you’d never think there was a
recession. Standing room. The audience loved it, mostly old people. I was trying to keep awake. Afterwards we
went backstage. I didn’t see Alice Ghostley. I went to school with her husband.
We got a dumpy limo outside to go to Mr. Chow’s. Mr. and Mrs. Chow greeted us. I didn’t want to sign the
guest book there because I wanted to do it with my own pen the next time. Tina Chow wished me happy birthday.
We had champagne. Robin Williams came in and said hello, I asked him to join us but he said he was at the bar
with someone, that he’d see. With some lady friend. And then I remembered that somebody told me he met a girl
the day he married his wife and that they’ve been having an affair ever since. Anyway, he didn’t come back. He
had a short-sleeved shirt on and his arms are so hairy, that’s how Susan recognized him. I hope Popeye is a hit for
him because his TV show just died. Stephen invited a girl to join us for dinner, a sculptress who lives down near
Rupert. She made a sculpture out of a napkin as a present for me, but then we didn’t notice when the waiter took it
away. Stephen was nervous and he almost started drinking. We dropped him on 57th and Second, then I dropped
Susan (cab $5).
Thursday, August 7, 1980
We drove out to Old Westbury with Whitney Tower to see the studio of his great-grandmother, Gertrude Vanderbilt
Whitney, to see if Interview might want to do some shooting there (toll $1, gas $30). The house was just beautiful,
Whitney said it was designed by William Adams Delano. She had a whole room with murals done by Maxfield
Parrish. Her sculptures were all around. Then we went next door to Whitney’s grandmother’s, Mrs. Miller, but
she’s in her eighties and she was “resting” so we just wandered around.
Back to the city ($1). Stopped at Philip Johnson’s apartment, talked to David Whitney for an hour. He’s
working on the Jewish Museum project. He says the show should be plain, with no gimmicks. But I think it should
be funny, I don’t know, I think the designer can really make a show interesting. But I guess the museum has no
money to spend.
Richard Weisman had invited me to meet Ann Miller, Patti LuPone, and Phil Esposito and him at “21” for
dinner at 11:00. At “21” they looked at my bluejeans and they were about to say something but I rushed in fast. I
finally talked Bob into putting Patti LuPone on the cover of Interview. She’s so funny and Bob finally fell in love
with her.
All I could do was stare at Ann Miller. Her face is flawless. Not a wrinkle, not even a smile line, and she said,
“One of these days I’m going to have to get a facelift.” I don’t think she has, really, because her skin isn’t pulled at
all—her face is fat but it’s unlined and not pulled. And she has tiny petite hands with long fingers. She’s been
married two and a half times—one was annulled. She said, “I married the richest Texans in the world, but as soon
as the marriages started, the romance was over.” She was cute, she ate like a Hollywood starlet on her first date—
she had chicken hash. That’s Hollywood style. And her nose is so fine, so perfect, it has to be a fake nose.
Ann said that when she was at the bottom some people dropped her and now when those people send her
flowers for Sugar Babies she writes back, “Thanks for nothing.” And the person who really did it the worst was
Betsy Bloomingdale, Bob’s best friend. And she said that Denise Hale was “trash.” And she’s known Reagan for
years but said she wouldn’t vote for him. But she’s like me—after every putdown she says, “Oh but don’t get me
wrong, Reagan’s wonderful, I just wouldn’t vote for him.”
Bob walked me home and when we got to 66th Street there was a big fire across the street from me in front of
the Ugandan building. A brand-new tree was burning because someone had set fire to the garbage underneath it,
and this whole family was sitting on the steps just watching the fire burn—it looked like Puerto Rico—and I just
got furious—it looked like Africa—and they were just staring at this beautiful tree burning that was put in right
when the one in front of my house was, and they didn’t even call the fire department! And I don’t understand
because the doormen on the block must have seen it, too, and nobody was doing anything. So Bob and I went in
and he called the fire department and they came in one second and put it out, but I don’t know if the tree will make
it.
Saturday, August 9, 1980
Vincent was at the office with his whole TV crew. Don Munroe and everybody. They filmed me doing some
introductions to the shows he’s shot, to give me a bigger presence in the programs. I think they’re going to call it
Andy Warhols TV. It’s interviews with people—just the people talking to the camera. Painted at the office till 8:00.
Bill Schwartz called, he’s in town from Atlanta for the Democratic convention and he asked me for dinner, he’s
staying at the Mayfair House.
Glued, and walked over to the Mayfair House. When I got there a man signing in said, “You painted my wife.”
And I didn’t recognize him and then his wife was there and I didn’t recognize her, either. It was awful because
there weren’t too many people around. She’d dyed her hair blonde and that threw me. It was Mr. and Mrs. H&R
Block. And I was looking so squarely at them. It was really bad. I invited them down to the office.
Sunday, August 10, 1980
Bob called and said I was meeting him at 7:30 to pick up Ina Ginsburg to begin coverage of the Democratic
National Convention with the Newsweek party at the Rainbow Room that Katharine Graham was giving. Went up
to the Metropolitan Club where Ina was staying. Ina was in a black one-shoulder dress held up with a diamond pin
that was maybe a Halston. She had on white shoes, she was nice. Then cabbed to the Rainbow Room ($3.50). Liz
Carpenter was there, she used to be Lady Bird’s social secretary. And she’s big and fat and Texan and she was
wearing an American flag dress with a watermelon across the front of it. And Peter Duchin said, “I know that dress
is patriotic … somehow.”
It was wall-to-wall everybody rich and famous and you couldn’t understand how they were all in town because
it was August, and then you know it is a great city if the convention could get all this together. Tom Brokaw was
there and Barbara Walters with her beau, and Ina knew everybody and was introducing us to everybody but I could
only remember half of the names of the people I knew, so I wasn’t so good for her.
John Tunney came over and put down Reagan and Bob got in a snit. John Tunney called me “Peter,” though
(laughs), and he thanked me for doing the Kennedy poster. He thought I was Peter Max. And then it was funny
because then somebody came up and said, “Oh thank you for doing the Carter poster.” Saw Art Buchwald, and Jan
Cowles was there with her husband, and Mrs. Graham we said hello to and later on goodbye to. Her daughter Lally
was there with Alexander Cockburn.
Ina introduced us to a girl named Dolly Fox, a rich girl who’s staying at the Ritz Towers and she’s a runner but
she has a pink ticket and that means she can go all the way to the president at the Sheraton. She’s in high school
still, but she acts like an older person. Her mother Yolanda was a Miss America in the fifties. We invited Dolly to
dinner with us at Pearl’s.
Pearl’s was jammed with convention people. We got a table. And then Ina noticed that the Blair boy and his
father, Bill Blair, the ambassador to Denmark, were also having dinner and she went and invited them to join us,
but the boy said it was his eighteenth birthday and he’d like to have it just with his father and that they’d come
over for coffee. Liz Carpenter was there with I.M. Pei and his wife and a woman who’s the Secretary of Education,
Shirley something, and she I think was drunk and tough and asked me my philosophy on education and I told her I
couldn’t even think, and she said, “You have to! Quick!”
We ordered dinner. Bob got screaming and crazy for a second when Ina said something against Reagan, but he
caught himself and apologized. Ina and Jerry Zipkin want Bob to get them invited to Richard Weisman’s lunch for
Miz Lillian. Then the Blair kid came over and talked and he and Dolly sort of picked each other up. But Dolly is
seventeen and acts forty and he’s eighteen and acts ten. Dinner was cheap and we even had champagne for the boy
($125).
Then we cabbed to Park to a party that Ina got us invited to given for the Rhode Island delegation. A lot of rich
presidents of corporations. Alice Mason was there looking like a mammy in a turban and a red dress. She came
over and said she was so thrilled to see me. Bob thought she was being mean, but she was nice. Everybody thinks
Carter will win on the first ballot and then they’ll have to work really hard to get him reelected. There’s so many
Democrats around. They had good coffee—you can always tell if a party’s good by if the coffee’s good. This may
have been the kind from a restaurant that you get in a container. I don’t know.
Left there about 12:00, walked Ina back to the Metropolitan Club. Home around 12:30.
Monday, August 11, 1980
It was a busy day around the office. Mr. Stern called and said the Flower paintings were dented when they got to
Hartz Mountain in New Jersey. Robyn called to find out about it.
Worked on paintings and paying bills up front where it’s air-conditioned because it was too hot to work in the
back. The Princess Holstein hovers around me when I work. I gave her to Ronnie so he could show her how to
trace. Robyn decided to ask around about the Holsteins and found out that they’ve got lots of titles but no money.
We put on a TV to watch the convention.
I dropped the princess (cab $4.50). She wants to help me with painting instead of work at Interview, but I can
do it faster without her.
All the real American people from the convention are around town and it’s sort of exciting. I saw a lot wearing
cowboy hats.
Went home and glued myself together. Victor said he’d meet us at Halston’s. I got there and Bianca was asleep
under the covers in a white evening dress that I thought was a nightgown.
Halston was working late, he had to finish the collection for China, he’s going to China and Japan.
I read the papers and ate potato chips.
We decided to go to Elaine’s. I wanted to get the Blair boy for Bianca but I couldn’t remember his first name or
his phone number. Had a table in the back. Elaine’s a little heavier now.
Bianca waved and Nick Roeg thought she was waving at him and came over. He was drunk and obnoxious—
one of those people who scares me because they change in a second. He directed Mick in Performance. He just
finished Bad Timing with Art Garfunkel. He was telling Bianca that he’d loved her for years, and I said, “Why
don’t you use her in a movie, you can get her.” And he screamed, “How dare you, how disgraceful of you to say
that, what bad taste!” and Bianca was protesting, too. She was nice to him, though, she didn’t put him down. I
guess she does hope she’ll get work from him. He was hugging and kissing her. He said he loved Bad.
And then he told me he saw “my mother” on TV in England, that stupid David Bailey “documentary” about me
where Lil Piccard made believe she was my mother and Nick was going on and on about how wonderful she was
and how sweet and how great it was to have a mother who loved me so much and he wished his did and I just
didn’t have the heart to tell him that wasn’t my mother. He said it was so touching it had him in tears. He was
yapping and driving us crazy. He’s fifty-two and he said how handsome he used to be and that look at him now, he
said it all fell apart just recently.
Then he and Victor had words. Victor had his Sony Sound-about on and Nick Roeg said how dare he be so rude
and not listen to the conversation. And Victor said, listen, that it was his table and he could do whatever he wanted,
that Nick was his guest and how dare he complain when he’d barged in where he wasn’t invited, and so then when
he saw that Victor was intelligent he was hugging him and apologizing.
Tuesday, August 12, 1980
At 12:00 I had an appointment to meet Debbie Harry at the office (cab $4). I was early and Debbie and Chris were
on time. We worked all afternoon. Debbie was sweet, every picture came out perfect. Vincent was taping her for
the Andy Warhol’s TV show and he had Lisa Robinson there interviewing her and Chris. I sat in on it so that I’d
have a higher profile on the tape for the TV show. Lisa is a good interviewer. They were there till 4:00.
And I’ve decided I’m not going to call girls anymore and invite them places because they’re too difficult. I
called Sean Young, that really pretty actress who I met with Linda Stein, because I thought that Richard Weisman
would like her. But she wouldn’t give me her home number so I could call her back and it’s too hard. I asked her if
she wanted to go to a baseball game and she said she’d been to one once already. She’s in some James Ivory movie
that’s about to come out.
I had to leave early because I invited Bianca to the Peking Opera, she said yes, and I invited John Samuels, too.
We ran into the Met Opera House and had just missed the curtain so we had to wait with Chinese people screaming
why couldn’t they go in. I think it’s so ridiculous that the Met tries to be so sophisticated and not let you in if
you’re twenty seconds late. Especially with something like this Chinese opera because Chinese people talk all
through their operas and make noise anyway.
Then after ten minutes we could go in. Fran Lebowitz was there with Jed. The opera was boring. Good
costumes, lots of tumbling. Drag queens.
I saw Margaret Hamilton, the witch in The Wizard of Oz, and got so excited and went over to her and told her
how wonderful she was. She does the Maxwell House commercials now. She’s really small.
Bianca’s trying to get Halston to get a ticket for John Samuels to go on the China trip, too. I asked her why she
went on the Tomorrow show if she didn’t have anything to say. And she said that she did, that she was in the new
Burt Reynolds movie, Cannonball II. But big deal—she’s in one scene, she worked one week.
Wednesday, August 13, 1980
Sat around the house waiting for it to be time to go to Richard Weisman’s lunch for Miz Lillian. The rest of
Truman’s time on Donahue was preempted by the convention. Jerry Zipkin was picking Bob up. So I met them at
Bob’s and we went to U.N. Plaza. There were press people outside, they took some pictures, but there weren’t any
really big stars. Suzie Frankfurt and Patti LuPone were there, and a 6’11” basketball player, I don’t know his name,
he was white, really cute, he kept trying to be friendly. Miz Lillian was in the other room. There was so much press
and not that many people.
A girlfriend of Robyn’s who kept asking about him was there. She has a volunteer job with LeRoy Neiman, she
carries his bag for him, I think. And LeRoy Neiman was there, he’s doing a drawing of Miz Lillian for the Daily
News. Then we went and found Miz Lillian talking to Barbara Walters. Lillian keeps saying the portrait I did of her
raised $65,000 but I never heard a thing about that. They brought out a cake and I taped the “Happy Birthday.”
Then LeRoy said he had a car downstairs and we could ride in it, so we all left with Miz Lillian. And it was an
actual car, not a limo. My tape jammed and I put in another one, and it jammed, too, so then I knew it wasn’t the
tape, that the Secret Service guy had done it. He was cute. People were looking and waving at the car, they had
Miz Lillian balloons. She said, “Every smile is a vote.”
At the hotel there were sisters and brothers and cousins from Georgia. She said, “Sis!” to one but I don’t know
if it was really her sister. We went up to the penthouse and then took another elevator to the next floor to her room,
and she said when times were better she used to have a whole suite.
LeRoy was drawing those terrible drawings of his, asking her questions, saying anything to her. It was great.
He told dirty jokes, and she told them back. Like his was one about a bear using a rabbit after every crap to wipe
himself, and she laughed. She’d left the liquor that Phyllis George sent at Richard’s and someone went back for it.
Phyllis George is sending a lot of things, she wanted her husband to introduce Jimmy or something like that,
but Miz Lillian said it was impossible, that it was protocol. Phyllis also sent two pictures of her baby. She also sent
Miz Lillian a sequined jacket, and Miz Lillian said, “Now how could I wear that.” I gave her a Philosophy book. I
ignored Ruth Stapleton Carter because I didn’t recognize her. There were a lot of Secret Service in the room
because Carter was next door or a few doors down. I felt like a groupie.
Miz Lillian was putting down Harvard people, she hates them, she was just on the point of calling some
Harvard guy she was in the Peace Corps with a fairy, but she didn’t.
I told Le Roy he was such a good interviewer that I wished he would work for Interview. He said he could talk
so freely with Miz Lillian because she reminded him of his own mother. I left him and took a walk down the
avenue. I was signing autographs and a girl came over and handed me an “I Love New York” button, and then she
asked me for money, and actually I was about to give her something but then she was so horrible and aggressive
that I handed the thing back to her and she grabbed my finger and slammed it in her book and squeezed it and I
was going to hit her with my tape recorder.
I passed out Interviews and then at 4:00 had an appointment with the H&R Blocks at the office (cab $3.60). The
office was busy. They brought their daughter and I think a senator from Missouri. They’re from Kansas City. They
were thrilled with the office. I gave them a Popism. Worked till 7:30, dropped Vincent (cab $5). Had a drink and
got very tired, decided to stay home and watch the convention which was boring.
Thursday, August 14, 1980
Got to the office and the Secret Service guys were everywhere, all over the block. I gave them Interviews. Then I
remembered the Mondale kid, that I’d invited him. Liz Carpenter was there, a camp, she had her hair Bo Derek-
style, just beads in it. She wanted me to give an art education lecture to the Secretary of Education.
I forgot to say that I keep running into the Robb girl, the LBJ daughter, the tall one. Lynda Bird. She could be a
raving beauty but she doesn’t want to be, I guess, because she wears glasses and a funny hairdo.
Liz Carpenter brought about eight people. Nancy Dickerson was there. And Wilson Kidde brought his friend
from Princeton, Matt Salinger, the son of J.D. Salinger, who we’ve been trying to get for Interview but he turned us
down. He said it would just get too complicated to give an interview and it was just easier not to. He’s really good-
looking.
And William Blair called and couldn’t come to lunch and said that his father didn’t want him to be in Interview
and we can’t understand it. Lunch was for Pat Ast, and we stuck her next to the Salinger boy so she had a good
time. I gave a speech and I gave out Philosophy books. I told them I didn’t believe in art, that I believed in
photography. Oatsie Charles was there and she gave me a Mondale scarf. And little William Mondale was cute, he
stayed through the whole thing. I asked him about the Secret Service and he said they cramp his style. He’s so
pretty.
Painting with a sponge mop at 860 Broadway. (photo Christopher Makos)
Andy never kept phone numbers organized. He scribbled them on scraps of paper, stuck them in his pockets, and
used them until he either memorized or lost them. (photo Ralph Lewin copyright © 1989)
The sunny front of the third-floor offices at 860 Broadway. Andy did most of his artwork in the back areas of the
loft, but some art in transit was usually stacked out front, by the doorway to the elevator and to Interview
magazine’s area. (photo Mark Sink)
Victor Hugo, John Lennon, and Rupert Smith. (photo Andy Warhol)
Vincent Fremont. (photo Andy Warhol)
Top: Robyn Geddes and Brigid Berlin. (photo Andy Warhol)
Bottom: Jade Jagger in Andy’s painting area at the back of the loft. (photo Andy Warhol)
Henry Geldzahler posing on top of the radiator grillwork. (photo Andy Warhol)
"860"
Top Right: At twilight, just before leaving the offices. (photo Mark Sink)
Middle Left: The view from 860 Broadway, looking down Union Square West. (photo Andy Warhol)
Middle Right: Lou Reed and Ronnie Cutrone at the front of Andy’s offices. (photo Andy Warhol)
Bottom: The “conference room” where lunches were served to guests. (photo Andy Warhol)
At Halston’s Olympic Tower showroom. left to right: Benjamin Liu, Martha Graham, Jane Holzer, and Liza
Minnelli. (photo Andy Warhol)
Gigi and Ronnie Cutrone. (photo Andy Warhol)
Suzie Frankfurt (photo Andy Warhol)
André Leon Talley and Maxime de la Falaise McKendry. (photo Andy Warhol)
Brigid Berlin at the height of her weight, in character as “Estelle,” on the set of Bad in 1976. With her are brother
Richard E. Berlin, Jr., and co-star Susan Tyrrell. (photo Pat Hackett)
Barbara Allen. (photo Andy Warhol)
Halston at home on East 63rd Street with Diane de Beauvau and Bianca. (photo Andy Warhol)
Richard Weisman with Catherine Oxenberg and her mother, Princess Elizabeth of Yugoslavia. (photo Andy
Warhol)
Top: Iranian ambassador to the U.N. Fereydoun Hoyeyda (left), Marisa Berenson, and Lester Persky. (photo Andy
Warhol)
Bottom: Bianca Jagger and Diane de Beauvau. (photo Bob Colacello)
John McEnroe and Catherine Guinness. (photo Andy Warhol)
Dinner with Mick Jagger and William Burroughs. (photo Andy Warhol)
Halston. (photo Andy Warhol)
Pat Hackett with twin brothers Jay (left) and Jed Johnson, (photo Patrick McMullan)
Martha Graham. (photo Andy Warhol)
Baryshnikov. (photo Andy Warhol)
Top Right: With John Samuels IV (a.k.a. actor John Stockwell) and Calvin Klein at Studio 54. (photo Patrick
McMullan)
Middle: With Jack Nicholson in New York, 1974. (photo Pat Hackett)
Bottom Left: With Steve Rubell and Peter Allen. (photo Patrick McMullan)
With Martin Scorsese, Catherine, Guinness, and Robbie Robertson in Scorsese’s suite at the Sherry Netherland on
May 11,1978. (photo Christopher Makos)
With James Curley. (photo Patrick McMullan)
Kissing John Lennon, February 1978. (photo Christopher Makos)
With Mick Jagger and Archie, 1975. (photo Pat Hackett)
With Hollywood agent Sue Mengers. (photo Bob Colacello)
With Diana Vreeland in 1975. (photo Bob Colacello)
Left: When Andy’s Philosophy book was published in 1975, artist/window dresser Victor Hugo (on floor) “tiled”
the floor of designer Halston’s (standing) showroom window at Madison and 68th Street with copies of it. (photo
Pat Hackett)
Right: At the White House in 1977 with his drawing of Jimmy Carter. (photo Bob Colacello)
Right: With Mick Jagger in 1975 at 860 Broadway, co-signing Andy’s Mick Jagger portfolio prints. (photo Pat
Hackett)
Left: Walking in the Village with Jed Johnson (left) and Paul Morrissey in 1972. (photo Pat Hackett)
Andy with his dachshund Archie in the entrance hallway of his house on East 66th Street, (photo Pat Hackett)
Getting dressed at his house. (photo Pat Hackett)
On one of his daily runs up and down Madison, stopping in stores both to shop and to encourage store owners to
advertise in his magazine, Interview. (photo Pat Hackett)
Top: Nico in 1966, singing with the Velvet Underground, (photo Billy Nome)
Bottom: Andy at his 1971 retrospective at the Whitney Museum with (left to right) Geraldine Smith, Ultra Violet,
Andrea Feldman, Jane Forth, and Donna Jordan. (photo Richord Bernstein)
Top: Andy in the sixties with (fop to bottom) Mary Woronov, who appeared in his film Chelsea Girls;Nico, wno
sang with the Velvet Underground, and International Velvet (Susan Bottomly), who was a Warhol Girl of the Year,
(courtesy of Whitney Film Archives)
Bottom: Warhol superstars Viva and Brigid Berlin (a.k.a. Brigid Polk) in Andy’s 1967 film Tub Girls, (photo Billy
Name)
Shots taken in 1968 on the set of Paul Morrissey’s Flesh, starring Jackie Curtis (with cigarette), Joe Dallesandro,
and Geri Miller, (photo Jed Johnson)
Body-painting a model in the sixties with Gerard Malanga and Ultra Violet.
Andy talks on the sprayed-silver payphone at the original Factory on East 47th Street in 1964. (photo Billy Name)
Top: Andy’s mother, Julia Zavacky, (top left corner), in Czechoslovakia before her marriage to Andy’s father,
Andrew Warhola. With her are Zavacky family members and in-laws. (courtesy of Amy Possarelli)
Bottom: Andy’s mother, Julia, with two of her three children, John (left) and Andy. (Her other son, Paul, is not
shown.) (courtesy of Amy Passarelli)
Andy on the lawn of Carnegie Tech in Pittsburgh, 1948. (photo Philip Peorlstein)
Rupert came up and I did some drawings and paintings. Hans Mayer called from Germany and I have to do one
of the portraits over.
Bob picked up the phone and called California and to tell them I’d agreed to do a poster of Reagan just because
of some offhand kidding comment I made and now I’m having nightmares that I’ll get pushed into really doing
one. Those things get so tricky. Bob gets so crazy wanting to be an inside Republican.
Friday, August 15, 1980
Got up and passed out Interviews, now I carry a lot more with me. I leave
them in cabs. And it’s so easy to get away from people in the street when
they stop you if you give them an Interview. They think they’re getting
something, a drawing or something. Vincent was saying the other day that I
should start actually selling them instead of giving them away, that it would
be more fun for me.
Tuesday, August 19, 1980
Bob was in a cranky mood all day. I told him we had to do Patti LuPone on
the cover and he went into a tizzy screaming. He said it looked too similar
to Paloma. They’re both Latins. But oh, Bob is so immature. He does a
baby tantrum when he wants something and then he does his guilty thing.
It’s just so predictable. Bob thinks he has too much to do. He thinks he has
no personal life. He said he doesn’t like going around with these old ladies,
that he just does it for me, but then he admitted that he didn’t mind the trips
sometimes, that he doesn’t mind the old girls sometimes, but that he’d
rather be with his own friends. Which friends? I don’t know. People he’s
met from work! And then on these scenes Fred is always called in, and after
his own night of binging then he has to act mature and be the know-it-all
and straighten Bob out.
And after weeks of Princess Holstein asking to help me I finally told her
she could help me trace, and then she disappeared for an hour and I had to
do it alone, and when she came back I asked her where she’d been and she
said she had a phone call. She’s becoming Ronnie’s assistant—she sits and
talks to Ronnie because he doesn’t have anything to do. And then Robyn
spends his days calling up his friends to look up who the princess’s relatives
are. So that’s the state of the office.
Wednesday, August 20, 1980
Bob was acting a little better, he apologized for being nutty the day before. I
met him for dinner to discuss the Patti LuPone interview, and I invited
Rupert, too, because we had to discuss the Florida trip with Ron Feldman.
We met at Le Relais (dinner $130).
When I got home I called Bob and we talked until 3:00 in the morning
because I was waiting for Jed to get home. He was having dinner with Alan
Wanzenberg the architect—he’s working with Jed now on the Brants’ house
in Palm Beach.
Thursday, August 21, 1980
It was Suzie Frankfurt’s birthday so we were having a lunch for her. She
invited everybody she wanted (party decorations $84). Lester Persky was
the hit of the party. Suzie’s decorating his house in Beverly Hills. He was
telling everyone what a great producer he is. Renny the flower person sent a
birthday boy from his place wrapped in cellophane in a box who gave roses
to Suzie. Lester tried to take the cellophane off. Tommy Pashun sent an
orchid plant. The whole thing was over by about 3:00 and Suzie took
everything from the table home—the chocolates and the flowers. Then
Tommy Pashun had to get the orchid back from her, because they send you
the orchids but you don’t get to keep them, they’re rare, and the florist picks
them up after you’ve had them and takes them back to the solarium. Then
the next day they go on to somebody else.
Monday, August 25, 1980
Bob said Ina called and that we were going to see the opening of 42nd
Street. Went up to the Winter Garden (cab $4). The photographers and
people were there and shoved us around. Mary Tyler Moore walked in right
when it was starting. The show was great. Tammy Grimes was really funny
as an old star. They had fifty tap dancers for the opening number. It was
what shows should be, really big. The set changes. Gower Champion was in
the hospital, they said.
The show was really exciting, but the most amazing thing in the show
was that Carol Cook was finally a star! I couldn’t believe it. Here’s
someone I met twenty-five years ago from Nathan Gluck and she was
saying every minute that she just had to be a star, had to be one. And here it
is twenty-five years later and she’s finally made it. She had the Joan
Blondell part. And it was the regular thing—“the show must go on” thing.
And this Carol does what Brigid used to do—she looks in the mirror and
she’s happy because she sees a pretty face, but she never looks below her
neck because if she did she’d see 500 pounds of fat. Desilu signed her once
and she was in some I Love Lucys. She’s not so fat now.
When the show was over there was all the bravo-ing, really a lot.
Eighty-five curtain calls. Then there was a hush. And David Merrick came
out and put his hand to his forehead and said, “This is a tragic moment.
Gower Champion just died.” And nobody knew what to do. The lead girl
started crying. She had just moved in with Gower or something. It was like
a movie, the lead guy was saying, “Pull the curtain, get the curtain down!”
And outside Joshua and Nedda Logan were in tears, and it was lots of
actors acting. Then we ran backstage and they let us in. The lead girl ran out
and tears were coming down her face and she said something like, “Go get
my dress” to somebody and “The show must go on, and I have to be a star.”
So this was her big moment and she was so upset with Merrick for ruining
it.
Then we went to Carol Cook’s dressing room and Ina started to
introduce me and Carol said, “Oh my God! Oh my God! Andy Warhol! I
haven’t seen you in twenty-five years! Remember when you gave me a
drawing and I gave you a cat? Oh my God!” It was such a camp. “Let’s get
together.”
We bought the papers but no reviews of the play were in it ($1). I don’t
know about this new section that the News is putting in that Clay Felker’s
editing. I don’t think it’s going to make it. It looks too much like that Long
Island newspaper—Newsday—and I think people do like newspapers like
the Post more.
Wednesday, August 27, 1980
Doc Cox called and said he was picking me up for the screening of Union
City starring Debbie Harry. Closed up early. Dropped Robyn and Fred (cab
$5.50). The Doc was a little late, he finally arrived in a limo. He told me
that he’d broken up with his nineteen-year-old boyfriend because the kid
got too jealous. The kid was a weirdo. Charles Rydell was in the movie, he
was a cabdriver. He was good. Taylor Mead was in the movie for a minute
as a drunk, doing a bit. I thought the movie was great, but Bianca, Ina, Bob,
and Doc Cox all hated it. And they had doctor things in the movie, so the
Doc was whispering things like, “That’s not right, that’s not the way you do
it.” Then we were meeting Tammy Grimes at Elaine’s. Helen Frankenthaler
came to our table and she was so drunk. I said, “Would you like to meet
Bianca Jagger?” and she waved her hand and said, “I don’t care about that.”
She said she wanted me to come to her table and meet Clement Greenberg
and Kenneth Noland, she said she thought it would be fascinating, so I went
there.
Then Tammy came and we reminisced about the old days. I once drew
her feet. She looked pretty good. I confronted her again and said, “I just
know it is your voice on those TV commercials because nobody could
imitate your voice, and you told me it wasn’t you and I just know it is.” And
then she confessed that it was.
Thursday, August 28, 1980
Somebody’s been calling every morning about 7:00 and letting it ring three
times and hanging up. And it’s on this line—the line that not too many
people know about. I picked it up once, but I usually don’t. Isn’t that
peculiar?
Friday, August 29, 1980
I went to look at a building to buy on 22nd Street, but it’s just too expensive
—$1.3. It’s ten floors but it’s next to those fire escapes that they made them
put on that are painted bright yellow. It would be a good building for the
magazine, though. I walked around looking for other buildings in the
neighborhood but they’ve all gotten eaten up by everybody in the last
couple of years, everyone’s been buying.
I called Donald Ambrose, Curley’s friend who lives in the Gramercy
Park area, and invited him out to dinner because we need someone to
replace David at Interview who quit. Sassy. You never knew what would
come out of his mouth. He’d been painting the office, and he had a friend
from Wisconsin, Jay Shriver, helping him. Jay had just come to New York
and was staying with him. So I noticed that Jay was really neat, and a good,
organized worker, and I thought that he would be a good person to have
working at the office, to be like a janitor but we wouldn’t call it a janitor,
and even help me with painting and stuff because Ronnie’s gotten too
elegant, all he does is talk on the phone all day and he’s going over to
Europe for a show that Lucio’s giving him. Anyway, so I said to David that
we would like to ask his friend Jay to work for us and he got so upset and
said how could I even ask that. And then he quit.
Cabbed to Trader Vic’s ($2). Met Donald Ambrose at the bar (drinks
$20). There were a couple of hookers next to us and as we were leaving to
go into the dinner place one of them grabbed David. Then Ricky and Cathy
Hilton were there and I asked them to sit down, but they said no. They were
with a girl who was just in from L.A. and she said she knew a friend of
mine, Ronnie Levin, and I told her she shouldn’t even know him, let alone
admit it, that it would be trouble, and that made her nervous. She had all
gold jewelry. She was a funny type, like the daughter of some old
Hollywood person (dinner $100 plus $5 to headwaiter). The food was just
awful.
Sunday, August 31, 1980
The presidential election is just too stupid to watch. I even hate John
Anderson now, for one second once he seemed great. And you see Ronald
Reagan in these neighborhoods with the poor people and you can just hear
him saying, “Oh my God, what am I doing here?” But his hair looks really
good. On my TV it really looks like good hair, not dyed.
Tuesday, September 2, 1980
Went to Halston’s. NBC was doing a magazine show. David Brinkley was
filming Halston’s rehearsals of his people to take them to the Far East, and
then the crew is going to follow Halston to China. It looked so rich at
Halston’s, so many orchids, so cool, the girls running around with their
brand-new luggage. Halston made 500 new pieces of clothes for the trip,
and some of the girls are taking the clothes for pay and some are (laughs)
just taking money. The clothes were beautiful.
Afterwards I decided to walk to 42nd Street and ohhh, it was like a crazy
play. Black guys mingling around, waiting to tear the next gold chain off.
The jewelry shop guys with guns strapped to their ankles. And the black
guys hanging around the stores with all the diamonds in them as if it’s the
neighborhood corner-grocery store. It was like a make-believe movie. Had
an appointment at the office at 3:00.
Brigid lost three pounds. She’s eating three meals, but all dietetic. She
calls her O.A. friends—Overeaters Anonymous—the night before and they
plan out exactly what they’ll eat the next day and then once you plan it, you
can’t change it, you have to have a hamburger patty if you’ve said so, you
can’t change it to fish. They watch each other. She’s down to 166.
Wednesday, September 3, 1980
Got up and the big news is that Johanna Lawrenson, Viva’s old friend,
Helen Lawrenson’s daughter, is living with Abbie Hoffman, who just
announced he’s going to surrender. I doubt if Viva could have known
because she would have blabbed.
The Princess Holstein in Interview was upset because I was doing a
poster for Joseph Beuys’s Green Party, she said it was a tragedy that
somebody like me would do it, that it was a Socialist party, and I didn’t
know what to do. She told Bob she didn’t know if she could continue
working for a person who would make a political statement without even
knowing what it meant. Fred told her it was none of her business.
Thursday, September 4, 1980
Hermann-the-German Wunsche was just in off the Concorde. He’s doing a
catalogue of all the prints since the beginning. Lunch for Hermann.
Brigid was trying to call Viva to find out if she’d known that Johanna
Lawrenson had been living with Abbie Hoffman. Brigid was thrilled, it was
the return of the sixties. Abbie Hoffman looks horrible, he doesn’t look any
different even though they say he had plastic surgery. And his wife just
slapped him with alimony and child-support charges.
Ron Feldman called and said the Miami trip was going to be so exciting,
that I was going to get three keys to the city. It sounds scary.
Friday, September 5, 1980—New York—Miami
New York to Miami is the worst line to go on, everybody’s so ugly and
Puerto Rican and Cuban and South American, it’s just sort of disgusting.
Florida’s really changed, it’s so different down there, it’s a new world
(magazines and newspapers $12).
We were picked up by a limousine and taken to Turnberry Isle, and
traffic was so bad it took us an hour and a half and I had to glue myself for
a cocktail party downstairs and I had three portraits to take photos for
during cocktail time. They had a big buffet with all the great food and I
couldn’t eat anything because I had to talk to all these people who wanted
me to sign autographs and I talked to this lady and she wanted her portrait
done right then and there so we had to leave and go upstairs and oh she had
pearls on that were a knockout, really like down to her belly and so
beautiful. I just don’t remember her name but she’s a good friend of Liza’s.
She asked me if I wanted a blow and I said no, she was one of those crazy
ladies. So I did her portrait, and then the lady who owned the hotel was
giving a dinner downstairs, very classy. I sat between the hostess and
another portrait and had a really great time.
After dinner I had to go to the room and do the two other ladies and we
had Rupert as a makeup man. The first girl was all pale because she was too
elegant to go into the sun and get wrinkles and the other girls were dark and
suntanned so it was very hard, we had to really redo them without a real
makeup person. And so we used a lot of white makeup. And so finally we
got them all over by 2:00 A.M. and we all went to bed and I was so
exhausted I couldn’t sleep.
Saturday, September 6, 1980—Miami
Art Deco bus tour thing with five TV stations and a hundred cameramen.
We had this girl who gave a lecture on all the Art Deco hotels. Jed couldn’t
make the tour, he was still working in Palm Beach, he said he would come
around 6:30.
Then we went to the Famous Restaurant, and each reporter came up to
talk to me and there were a hundred of them, and I signed a lot of
autographs and talked a lot and I had to be photographed eating everything,
like gefilte fish. I’d never had it before. It was okay. That was real hard
work and afterwards we were exhausted so they took us back to the hotel
where we rested up for the opening. Jed arrived with Alan the architect, and
we all got into limousines and went to the opening. I had to sign, do
interviews, mob scene, Popisnts, Exposures, posters.
Sunday, September 7, 1980—Miami
It was really hot. Got up, we had to have breakfast downstairs with the
owner, Mr. Sopher and his wife—Donald and Carol. I’d done her portrait
two days before, and I was a little late and when I came they were all there,
two tables full of all these chic and exciting people. You had to walk the
line, the buffet, but it was really really good food—salmon, you could have
scrambled eggs with anything, they had roast beef and bagels and cream
cheese and lox. I don’t know why they spent so much money doing the
food, but it was really good. Ron Feldman was there. Talked to the owner
and he reminded me he was from Pittsburgh or McKeesport. He owned this
whole empire, 800 acres of swamp that he made into this great place.
Signed a lot of autographs and did interviews. It was just exhausting.
Went back to the hotel and watched Stage Door with Ann Miller and
Katharine Hepburn, and that was better than watching the tennis matches
because I can’t stand watching anyone who might lose.
Monday, September 8, 1980—Miami—New York
The lady’s Rolex that Thomas Ammann gave me as a birthday present
doesn’t run right, it’s two hours slow. Waited around the airport lobby.
Bought magazines ($8). There was a story in one of the newspapers that in
Dade County where we were staying there’s a murder every minute. It’s the
most murderous place in the world. Somebody checked into a hotel and
they didn’t look under the bed and the next day they did and there was an
eighty-one-year-old woman strangled to death. So you can imagine what
that place is like. Well, it’s so hot there, I think in hot places people get nuts.
It fries your brain. Finally we went up and I went to the bathroom in the
airport, I was really scared to go there alone thinking of all these murders
there, and there were a couple of people in back of me, and I thought it was
going to be a mugging but as I turned around—I hadn’t even washed my
hand—the guy just wanted my autograph and to shake my hand. He was
one of the workers there. White.
On the plane the girl in the seat in front of me wanted an autograph so I
signed a sick bag for her.
Had a date with Sharon Hammond for dinner and we picked up Ann
Barish to go to Elaine’s (cab $4). And Elaine’s that night had Woody Allen,
Mia Farrow, and the girl that’s doing Saturday Night Live, Jean Doumanian.
She’s an old buddy of Woody Allen’s, I thought she was his girlfriend but
she’s just an old buddy. Sharon said she couldn’t drink after 12:00 because
she was getting her eyes lifted in the morning by Dr. Rees and we kept
telling her that she was stupid, that she didn’t need it, but she said she
wanted to get the fat out and it was a good time to begin. And then she’s
going to get silicone in her cheeks to fill up the line marks around her
mouth, so she’s starting early.
Dustin Hoffman was there with his girlfriend and he walked by and
didn’t say anything to me. David Merrick was the big hero there, everybody
came up to shake his hand. And I kept telling Sharon that I was finished,
that nobody would say hello to me. But then the Secret Service all came in
and what’s-his-name came over to say hello to me. Jack Carter. So it was a
really good night there.
Wednesday, September 10, 1980
It was the Jewish holiday so things started clearing out at 3:00. Worked with
Rupert until 7:30 or 7:45 on the Debbie Harry portrait (cab $5). Picked up
Barbara Allen and John Samuels who are now an item. We got to Diane Von
Furstenberg’s and it was absolutely nobody we knew and Diane was
nowhere around to introduce us, so we just sat and giggled. Then Richard
Gere and Silvinha came. They were just back from Fire Island. Marina
Schiano and Thomas Ammann were after Richard. They were putting down
Fire Island and I said it was the greatest place in the world. I told Richard I
bet nobody asked for his autograph because you know how cool those
fairies are out there and Marina had to make a comment, “Well they didn’t
ask for yours but you can be sure they asked for his.” You know Marina.
And Richard told Bob (laughs), “No pictures please.” Food was fried
chicken that could have been from the Colonel’s, and chocolate cake.
Diane’s kids are beautiful. As we were leaving she came over and said, “Oh
my dear, didn’t you meet the prince of Thailand?” And she pointed out this
kid that we thought was a waiter. I mean, he could have worked at the
vegetable stand on the corner. But she never even introduced us! And we’d
been dying to meet him. He’s tinier than Rupert. Dark hair.
Left Barbara and Silvinha and Thomas Ammann staring at Richard
Gere. John Samuels they dropped—he was looking around nervously
wanting to go to the Ritz to see some group like “The Coconuts” or
something. Had a sleepless night.
Thursday, September 11, 1980
Watched Mrs. Allison the psychic on Donahue talking about her “angels”
that she finds—the bodies of children that are missing. It was fascinating
but I don’t know if I really could believe it. She would be great if she could
tell you in the hour after a child was missing where he was—that would
really do something. She should sit by her phone.
Glued myself together and picked up Bob and Diana Vreeland to go to
the Winships’ for dinner. Diana was wearing a beautiful Valentino (cab $2).
Got there and it was really cozy, a dinner party for Zandra Rhodes. The
Carimatis were there, and Ralph Destino and André Gregory. Ralph told me
he was in love and that he was going to get married and for the third day in
a row I gave somebody the lecture not to get married, which I really have to
stop. And then I made a big bet with him and I’m scared to find out who’s
right. A portrait-sized bet. It’s whether Rita Hayworth was born in
Brooklyn. I said she wasn’t. I asked him for a 40 percent discount at his
store, Cartier. With 40 percent they still make a 10 percent profit.
Zandra Rhodes had an upsweep of purple and pink hair. The Winship
lady had on a plain Zandra dress. Zandra’s fiancé Couri Hay came after
dinner. He’s trying to play it heavy with Zandra so I brought up his wife.
Oh, you know, his “wife,” that boy. And he tells Zandra to be freakier and I
told her she should play down the freak stuff now, that the colored hair was
sort of old-fashioned. In front of Zandra he said, when I asked him why he
didn’t put her in his columns, he said because nobody knew who she was.
Friday, September 12, 1980
Still a Jewish holiday. It was a nice warm day and it was still pretty empty,
just cabs around. Fred came in and said he’d just been over watching Milos
direct Ragtime on Irving Place. And that it was fun with the horseshit and
everything.
Saturday, September 13, 1980
Decided to go over to the Kennedy bash to celebrate that Michael was
getting married to Vicky Gifford. I didn’t want to go alone so I waited on
the corner for Fred and Mary Richardson to pick me up and we cabbed to
55th and Sutton Place to Le Club. The paparazzis were all there, Ron
Galella and everybody. Caroline and John-John were there and Eunice
Shriver—I think it was her—and Ethel. The only grownups missing were
Jackie and Ted. And Jean Kennedy Smith.
Fred and I were at the old folks’ table. Eunice told me that she likes
madonnas and I told her that I was doing Modern Madonnas and I’m going
to call her to come down to the office. Michael gave a speech about how he
loved Frank Gifford and it was like having a new father. And the little ten-
year-old gave a speech about how when Michael was in a car and had to go
to the bathroom he pissed in a beer bottle and they were all telling him to
shut up but he wouldn’t. And Robert Jr. gave the best speech, he’ll probably
be better than Teddy, he’ll probably be the one. But the funniest Kennedy
was the one who was dancing with his girlfriend’s purse and being like a
fairy. They all dance pretty good. Kerry wrote some songs and they all sang
them. Mary kissed all the boys, she knew them all.
I was then invited to a boat party that Calvin Klein and Elton John were
giving down at that boat called the Peking where Yves St. Laurent had the
Opium party that I’d missed so I wanted to go. Elton John had given a
concert for 400,000 kids in the park. Fred wanted to take Mary and Kerry
and a bunch of boys, so we got a limo outside to go downtown. It was a
beautiful night. And I saw some interesting people there like Joe
Dallesandro. And Archie and Amos’s vet, who’s so good-looking, Dr.
Kritsick, was there. And John Samuels. Every model in town. Lester Persky
was running around after every model there.
Sunday, September 14, 1980
Brigid said that she talked to Viva finally and that the reason, Viva said, that
Abbie turned himself in was that he found out that Viva found out about it
and he knew she would blab.
And Barbara Loden died. She was sweet.
Monday, September 15, 1980
Cab to the Jewish Museum where Time magazine was taking photographs
of me ($3.10). It’s the same photographer that’s been photographing me for
years. Ron Feldman was there.
Eunice Shriver had called in the morning and said she wanted to come in
to see the Modern Madonnas that I told her about and I invited her for
lunch, but then later she cancelled. The place was busy, everyone was
running around. One of those boys from Las Vegas that Edmund Gaultney
brought by decided to have his portrait done. We couldn’t find anyone to do
makeup though, so I did the makeup myself and I guess I can actually do
makeup, it came out pretty good. The boy was really suntanned, I put on
white.
Went downtown to Dr. Giller’s birthday party. It was the pretty people,
everyone we knew. Rupert crashed, and when Rupert crashes he stands
there in bright red and smiles. Tommy Pashun was there. And a defense
lawyer named Ed Hayes who looked like he was from Laverne and Shirley,
like a plant that people invite to parties to wear funny clothes and jump
around and make things “kooky.” Sort of forties clothes, really crewcut,
about twenty-nine. He said, “I can get ya outta anything.”
Tuesday, September 16, 1980— New York—
Philadelphia—New York
I changed my mind about the train to Philadelphia for Jamie Wyeth’s show
at the Fine Arts Museum. Had Fred get a car. Bob and I cabbed to Doubles
($5). We were having lunch with Jean Tailer and Pat Buckley. I checked my
bag, had drinks, and then lunch. It was a ladies’ lunch, all the ladies like to
go to Doubles for lunch because it’s cheap and you can eat all you want and
go back all the time and it’s horrible food like smoked turkey and smoked
ham and it gave me a sore throat. All these rich ladies who spend money on
clothes but they won’t buy good food. Bob was the best gossiper. Pat
Buckley said she was so thrilled that Shogun was on TV. She said the night
before she just went to bed with a tray and watched all three hours of it and
had her girlfriends call her between segments—she didn’t even go
downstairs to see George Bush who was having dinner with her husband.
And she was so disappointed that it was only going to be on for two hours
that night.
Arrived in Philadelphia and couldn’t find Delancey Street, the driver
was too old and cranky. Saw the cracked bell. Found Walter Stait. We told
him that we wouldn’t be staying over after all, that we had to do a portrait
early in the morning in New York. Had tea, changed.
Emlen Etting was there in a black cape and black hat, so old, looking
like one of those funny fairies. We gave him a lift to the museum. All the
old bags were there. Met Jamie, did some TV. His father and mother were
no-shows. His brother Nicky and his brother’s wife Jane who works for
Sotheby’s were there. Arnold Schwarzenegger wasn’t, and Nureyev wasn’t.
I saw Bettie Barnes who let my cat die. It’s a man. B-E-T-T-I-E. I once gave
him a kitten and the kitten was crying and I thought it wanted its mother so
I gave him the mother. We had two cats left, my mother and I had given
away twenty-five already. This was the early sixties. And after I gave him
the mother he took her to be spayed and she died under the knife. My
darling Hester. She went to pussy heaven. And I’ve felt guilty ever since.
That’s how we should have started Popism. That’s when I gave up caring. I
don’t want to think about it. If I had had her spayed myself I just know she
would have lived, but he let her die.
So it was Jamie’s big show. I had to stand in front of my portrait. Jamie
is painting bigger—more Pop—pictures now. I told him he should go even
bigger and he said he didn’t think you could get stretchers that big and I
said you could get them as big as the sky.
Phyllis Wyeth was my dinner partner and my other dinner partner was
Bonny Wintersteen, she’s filthy rich.
Warren Adelson and his wife were there and she was wearing the same
dress she wore in Monte Carlo and I said, “That’s the same dress you were
wearing in Monte Carlo,” and she said that when she was getting dressed to
come she said, “Nobody will remember this dress except Andy Warhol.
He’ll say, ‘That’s the same dress you wore in Monte Carlo.’ “ It was funny,
we had fun.
Walter Stait was funny. I was having a good time until Fred told me that
this place, the Fairmont Hotel, where we went after the museum, was where
they had Legionnaire’s Disease and then my throat started hurting more.
But they said it had been completely renovated.
Then we slipped out and went back to Walter’s to get Fred’s bag. A two-
hour ride back. I wanted to give the driver a really big tip, but Fred said you
can’t spoil them ($20).
Wednesday, September 17, 1980
I was tired from the Philadelphia trip.
So many Jewish newspapers are coming to interview me about the Ten
Jewish Geniuses—Jewish Day, Jewish Week, Jewish Month—and Fred
thinks I shouldn’t do any more interviews for a while, that I’ve been doing
too many. And he’s right.
I walked home, glued myself together. Thomas Ammann was picking
me up to go to Sondra Gilman’s party. It was for Nick Roeg, but Nick was
gone when we got there. It was so hot there, people were sweating. Sylvia
Miles was there, and Sylvia acts so funny, she feels like we’ve dropped her
and she says she wants to “renew our relationship.” But whenever she
invites me to be her date someplace, it’s always someplace that I’ve already
been invited to, so I have to tell her that I’m already going and that I’m
taking somebody. And she told the best gossip—that Joe Dallesandro is
now living with Paul Jabara. No wonder he hasn’t been calling for money.
Sondra had some interesting people there—like Tony Walton the stage
designer. Sondra looked great in this beautiful bright yellow silk dress—the
color I used on the Debbie Harry portrait—and it made her look so young,
eight years old, and we asked her who made it because it was really pretty
and she said, “You’ll fall over if I tell you.” So she told us and Bob and I
did fall over—it was a Diane Von Furstenberg. Off the rack for $120. It
really was pretty.
Sondra produced the new Nick Roeg movie, Bad Timing with Art
Garfunkel and that girl I think I met there, Teresa Russell, she didn’t look
like anything. The food was awful. We left and Sondra was still serving
quail eggs, they have a quail-egg farm.
Thursday, September 18, 1980
I went to the office and had a fight with Carole Rogers about her throwing
some envelopes out. She said they only cost thirty-five cents, but I proved
that they cost $2. Bob was in a better mood because he moved into his new
bigger office. Jay Shriver is really good at straightening up the place.
Senator Heinz’s wife called and said that I just had to come to her dinner
in Washington next week because she’s planned on Jamie and me and it was
in my honor. Ronald Reagan, Jr.’s people called to say he’d agreed to be
interviewed by me for Interview, which I didn’t know anything about.
Joanne Winship was calling me all day about whether I was picking up
Carolina Herrera to take to her Italian Boy Scouts charity dinner, which I
was, but I wanted to wait to call Carolina in order to drive Mrs. Winship
crazy. Mrs. Winship threatened that if I didn’t let her know right then, that
she was going to send a car for Carolina, which I knew she wouldn’t. I
picked Carolina up and she was wearing one of her creations, she has about
twenty that she did herself, she’s going into the designing business, that’s
why she’s here staying in New York. We got a cab and went to the Pierre
($3). Monique Van Vooren was there and she wanted her picture taken with
me, so we did, and then I walked away but then she grabbed me and said
how dare I “dump” her and I said, “Oh come on, Monique, you’re crazy.”
She said, “How could you drop me! I’m going to be so big next year.”
Then Monique sat at our table and Joanne Winship said, “These
disgusting people who sit where they’re not supposed to!” And Monique
said, “Oh you bitch.” And Joanne said, “You phony, you’re my guest and
you’ll sit where I put you!” It was so nutty, Joanne was a raving maniac. I
loved it. I just wanted a tape recorder so badly.
Fred got left for a second and when he came back Joanne saw him sit
back down next to Mrs. Vreeland where he’d been sitting before and she
screamed, “How dare you sit in that spot!” Poor Fred, he’d just gotten up to
go to the bathroom.
Then Ron Link who’d staged the fashion show before the dinner sat
down at our table and Joanne screamed at him and then he hated her and
left and then Joanne told Monique he’d left because of her. I mean, she’s
just bonkers, totally crazy. I had such a great time.
Saturday, September 20, 1980
Was picked up by John Reinhold to go to Bill Copley’s wedding party (cab
$5.25). The door was open when we got there. There was a tent set up in the
back, Donald Bruce White was catering. I was jealous of the bride because
she had on a $145,000 string of pearls from Tiffany’s. This is the woman
who was a real madam who Bill cast in his play that Maxime de la Falaise
and Denise Bouché were also in. I left her name off the present I brought—
on purpose. It was a Shoe.
It was a small party. Ludwig is Bill’s new dachshund and he’s different
from little Tommy who was run over, but he’s nice. I gave him food so he
liked me. They were cutting the cake and this guy came over and said he
wanted to talk to me and he took me aside and I thought he was going to
say some nice things and suddenly he was so mean! He was the boyfriend
of the madam’s girlfriend. I don’t know what was bothering him. I was
afraid to get up, I thought he would swing at me.
John Reinhold and I left quickly and John said to me, “Why didn’t you
look at his suit, because then you never would have talked to him.”
Sunday, September 21, 1980
I tried to watch TV but nothing good was on. Oh yeah, that’s right, the
debate. I couldn’t stand to watch either one of them though—Reagan
looked so old, so crunched-up. And the other guy, Anderson, looks too
much like Chris Hemphill.
Monday, September 22, 1980
Raquel Welch’s secretary called and said that Raquel would like to change
our lunch from 1:30 to 1:00 so I stayed uptown, then walked to Quo Vadis.
Raquel was a half-hour late anyway, she didn’t get there till 1:30. She
looks great for forty. Her new husband is some French film producer.
Raquel is sweet now that she’s come down a little in the world.
Tuesday, September 23, 1980
Bob was giving a big lunch for Paige Rense, the editor of Architectural
Digest, and it was a big success. There was Eugenia Sheppard and Earl
Blackwell and Lily Auchincloss and Pat Buckley. And Lee Radziwill who
Paige Rense is interviewing for Interview—and Cris Alexander was there to
take pictures of the two of them. Jean Tailer was there and Christina
Carimati and Marion Javits and Joe Eula who I haven’t seen in months.
Twenty-seven people.
And Victor called from Paris. Halston and the gang had gotten
successfully through China. He said it was wonderful, that I’d missed a
great thing.
Wednesday, September 24, 1980— New York—
Washington, D.C.
Got to the hotel, checked in. At 7:00 went to Steve Martindale’s cocktail
party where we saw Liz Carpenter who said she still wanted her portrait
done, but then I asked Ina Ginsburg if Liz was serious, and Ina said, “Well,
I think you should tell her the price.” I guess she doesn’t know it costs $2
5,000. Ina said she’ll probably have a heart attack. Liz Carpenter kept
saying, “You’ve got to Xerox me.” Instead of Polaroid. “When are you
going to Xerox me, darling?”
And then we went off to another party for the Dyke Women of the Year.
You know, the dykey types—what’s it called? “Outstanding Women.” And
the first person I was introduced to was this creepy guy who said that Viva
was in town and that he was going to be her lawyer in a lawsuit. He was
saying, “Viva’s very unhappy about the situations of the past,” implying
that she wanted to sue us, and I was saying, “Well, Viva makes her own
problems. I mean, they’re not mine.” It was very creepy, just absolutely
creepy. It’s just those kind of creeps who make problems. The kind that
want to start trouble over nothing. Oh, but actually, when I think about it,
Viva could never stand being with this guy for one second.
Then we took the brownies Ina had in the car over to Senator Heinz’s.
Jamie and Phyllis Wyeth were there. And then Liz Taylor came in with John
Warner and she came over and was really sweet and then later she came
back to our table and had dinner with us. John would bring me a full glass
of wine but he’d bring Liz a thimbleful, and she’d say, “Well, what
happened?” and he would say, “Oh I don’t know, it was the bartender, he
just didn’t give me enough.”
And I met Mrs. Kassebaum, the daughter of Alf Landon, the only lady
senator. A lot of tough broads, but funny ones. There was a Portuguese
guitarist there because Mrs. Heinz is Portuguese from Mozambique. We
toured the house, a beautiful house, and they have really rich, great
paintings. They have a Copley. And Mrs. Heinz made the food, it wasn’t
Heinz, it was Portuguese duck and rice, but I just had one helping.
Ina dropped us off at the hotel. Went upstairs and they’d left a package
of Godiva chocolates and I ate the centers out of them. I opened every
center. And they left a bottle of brandy so I drank that. And a basket of fruit
and I ate all the kiwis. Got sugared up and I guess I passed out but I woke
up an hour later.
Thursday, September 25, 1980—Washington, D.C
—New York
On the plane I read Conversations with Joan Crawford. I loved the way she
said “shit” and “fuck” and everything like that. Oh God, if only I could
have gotten Paulette to do that when we were trying to do the book with
her, it would’ve been so great. I’ll have to ask her as a Christmas present if
she’ll do it now, let me tape a good juicy tape so that I can use it someday. I
wonder if I can really ask her for it—“Oh, please Paulette—just a present so
I can (laughs) jack off by it.” That’s a good line, right? Yeah, I think I’ll tell
her that.
The rain caught up with us in Manhattan. Bob had checked his bags so
we had to wait a little (cab $20). We all went home to drop our bags off.
11:30.
Ron Reagan, Jr. was coming to the office. The photographers came and
the hairdresser came, the stylists came, the art directors came—so the place
at six o’clock was filled with like twenty-five people. And Bob was going
around, crazy, saying, “Is this what it is to take a simple picture of a nice-
looking boy?” They kept arriving—the assistants of the assistants of the
assistants, and finally we said this is crazy and sent them away and then we
were down to three people, four people.
Then Ronnie Reagan, Jr. came with his girlfriend, hand in hand. And a
black friend who takes care of him who he called “Chocolate Boy.” And
Jamie Kabler who’s married to Mrs. Annenberg’s daughter arranged it all.
He ran over to me and said, “Can you believe this? Lally Weymouth called
Ron up for an interview and when he told her, ‘I’m sorry, I don’t do
interviews—I’m only doing one interview and it’s for Interview magazine,’
she said, ‘How can you work for that homosexual publication? The two of
us are more the same kind of person. I mean, I’ve got top family and you’ve
got top family, and you’re giving an exclusive to that newspaper?’ “ Jamie
said Ron got really upset and wanted to call off the shoot, but Jamie ran out
and bought an Interview and Ron read it and it didn’t look homosexual to
him, and he said he didn’t care anyway, that he still wanted to be in it
because he wanted “to meet Andy.” And go out to dinner with me. And he
turned out to be a really nice kid, God he was so sweet. The only trouble
was he kept pawing the little girl. He and the girl live together. The
Chocolate Boy is just a close friend.
And he’s very smart. He didn’t say much, but then when he did it was
smart. Lispy and cute. And he was sort of sitting there looking bouncy.
Then they took pictures and he drank. He drank more than anybody I know,
I don’t know if it was just not to be nervous or what.
Then went to do the interview at 65 Irving. I didn’t know what to talk to
him about, I was too shy and he was too shy. But then Bob got a little
encouraged and started asking about his father. And I asked him (laughs) on
Bob’s behalf, whether his father dyes his hair. He said everybody asks him
that question. I blamed it on Bob. Bob then blamed it on me. Ron said no,
his father doesn’t, and that his mother’s very sweet and very adorable. So
then I got sneaky and brought Ordinary People up, and I told him how
much I hated Mary Tyler Moore, that after I saw the movie if I saw her on
the street I’d just kick her. And at that point he was almost going to say
something about Nancy, but then somehow he got the drift of it and
changed the subject. Because I think the mother in Ordinary People is just
like Mrs. Reagan. Really cold and shrewd. And by the way, little Timmy
Hutton, the star of it, turned us down, he won’t do any interviews.
Okay, so we’re at 65 Irving. I told him I’d never had frogs’ legs and he
was so sweet he ordered them just so I could try it. He’s really sweet, a
beautiful body and beautiful eyes. But he just doesn’t have a pretty nose.
It’s too long. Big full lips. He doesn’t look like anybody in the family, it’s
surprising. I don’t know if he’s a fairy. He was sitting there holding his
girlfriend’s leg, touching her. She’s twenty-eight years old, her name is
Doria, and they met in California. She invited me over for a Cuisinart
dinner—he bought her a Cuisinart for her birthday. And they have a ten-
inch television set, Quasar.
Then outside we ran into Annie Leibovitz and she’s gotten over her
“heart attack.” She looked great. I took some Polaroids and gave them to
them as souvenirs, and I gave them Philosophy books and Exposures. And
then little Ron wrote in one to the black friend, “To my favorite nigger,”
and the boy said he’s going to show it around when he goes to the White
House. Then we were talking about Merce Cunningham and Ron said the
piece Merce did with the helium pillows was his favorite and I told him that
I’d made those Silver Pillows and he said that he didn’t even know, that that
wasn’t why he’d said it. Bob just fell in love with him, thought he was so
great. Jamie Kabler had a limo and we dropped the Reagan kids off, they
live on 10th Street between Fifth and Sixth. They had a really good time,
they really liked us, so we’ll be going off to Cuisinart dinners.
Have I said that I lost the bet to Ralph Destino about where Rita
Hayworth was born—she was born in Brooklyn and so now I have to do the
portrait of the woman he’s going to marry.
Saturday, September 27, 1980
Got up at 9:00. Had to glue myself together to meet Fred Dryer to interview
him at Quo Vadis. He’s the Los Angeles Ram. He arrived and he wasn’t
wearing a shirt or tie, and he had two bruisers with him who weren’t, either,
but we got the restaurant to give us the back table, the one we had when we
interviewed Burt Reynolds. Fred Dryer’s 6’6” and he’s so good-looking I
fell in love with him. He wants to go into acting. I was embarrassed when
he asked me what number he was and I didn’t know. He had four salads and
meat.
Sunday, September 28, 1980
Brigid was at EST all day. They took their watches away. She didn’t get
home till 5:00 in the morning. They had 200 people and it sounds smelly.
They looked in people’s eyes and farted. They called each other assholes, so
now Brigid’s a big asshole. It’s just ridiculous.
Wednesday, October 1, 1980
I decided to stay at the office and get some work done with Rupert on the
diamond dust. If it were real, it would cost $5 a carat and that would be
$30,000 or $40,000 for each painting for the diamond dust alone. Then John
Reinhold picked us up to see Charles Ludlam’s Ridiculous Theatrical
Company’s play Reverse Psychology down on Sheridan Square (cab $6,
tickets $32).
We had good seats and the play was good because it was so real. It’s
about a man and a woman psychiatrist who have a couple of patients who
go off to an island and take a drug called PU which makes them love
whoever they didn’t, and vice versa, and it was fun, worth going to see
because the fights were so real.
John and I decided to go see what Bobby Short was really like so we
went to the Carlyle (cab $4.50) and Bobby was there singing away, and I
was reminiscing about seeing him in the old days when John brought me
back to reality—he told me that Shirley Goldfarb went to heaven. Then
Bobby was starting to come over so we paid up and ran out quickly
($68.30). Got home about 1:30.
Thursday, October 2, 1980
Nelson Lyon came over with Michael O’Donoghue, the writer on Saturday
Night Live, and he’s a funny guy but he doesn’t look Irish. He said that at a
party I took a picture of him, but I must have been aiming at somebody
behind him. He looks like he wants to be Buck Henry. I hadn’t invited them
for lunch and they saw all the leftover food from the big lunch Bob had just
had, so I had to make some excuse, and Nelson’s so paranoid, anyway.
Richard Weisman said he needed some girls for the “21” thing before
the Ali fight so I invited Barbara Allen. And she wanted to bring John
Samuels so I asked Richard and he said yes.
Worked till 7:30 on portraits with Rupert. I found out the fight didn’t
start till 11:00 so I wondered why we had to get to “21” at 7:30. I answered
the phones. Then cabbed uptown ($5).
“21” was doing this special thing for its good customers, I guess, it was
cocktails at 7:30 and dinner at 8:30. Then they gave us tickets to go over to
Radio City Music Hall and see the fight and invited us back to “21” for a
light supper afterwards. John McEnroe, Sr. was there with a friend from the
Paul Weiss office who said he was our lawyer but I didn’t know him. There
were Ali posters and “I Am the Greatest” buttons. I was trying not to drink
too much. They kicked us out when they said we were going to miss the
fight. We went through the Warner’s building and over to Radio City. The
Spinks fight was on and then the Muhammad Ali fight came on and I
couldn’t watch it, I ate all my fingers on one side. The audience couldn’t
believe it when he lost. It was too unreal. And he had makeup on, he looked
so handsome, it was like white makeup and his face wasn’t shiny and
Holmes’s face was black and shiny. Then we went back to “21” and I
introduced Barbara Allen to John Coleman. John Samuels fell in love with
Walter Cronkite and was talking to him at the bar and I got John away
because he was drunk.
Then Richard wanted to take us to a new singles-swingles restaurant and
he invited three blonde girls along and Barbara didn’t like that. She was
talking about John Samuels, saying, “Oh look, he’s just like Peter Beard—
he walks like Peter, he talks like Peter, oh look, he runs like Peter, he eats
like Peter!” I said, “What are you talking about?” Because, I mean, they’re
nothing alike.
And Barbara was saying she couldn’t wait until Bianca came back and
found her with John— “What do you think Bianca will think? What will
she say? Well, maybe I’ll let her have him when she gets back. What will
she think, though?” And here John had just said to me, “I can’t wait till
Averil gets back—I’m going to meet her at the airport.”
Bob had gotten Barbara a joint because she asked him and she was more
thrilled with that than anything else. So we left and started to walk home,
this is around 79th Street, and then we heard all these cop cars and we saw a
crowd and John ran right up and into it and it was a dead person on the
street. So we asked people and finally a doorman told us that three guys had
just walked by and he thought they looked strange, and then they had
picked on an undercover cop and tried to rob him and the cop had shot and
killed one of them. And John just wanted to be in the thick of it, and
Barbara was upset. And it was just awful, seeing the Ali fight, and that was
violent, and then this, and so we got a cab and the driver seemed crazy to
me. Barbara said he was Greek but I think he was Puerto Rican and saying
crazy things because he thought it was a Puerto Rican that’d got shot. So I
dropped Barbara off and watched her go into her building and then just as
we were driving past Lenox Hill Hospital the body was going in that we’d
just seen lying on the street (cab $4)!
When I got home I didn’t have Barbara’s number to call her and tell her
I got home safely, so I called Bob to get it, and he told me that Barbara had
told him that everyone was after John Samuels—“especially Andy”—and I
told him to call her up and tell her off—that if I’d wanted John Samuels I
knew him before she did, and I’d only invited him to this thing because I
thought it would make her happier. And that actually Richard had wanted
another girl, not her. So there!
Sunday, October 5, 1980
Church. Diana Vreeland called and thanked me for buying ten copies of her
book Allure. I walked the dog and thought I passed a lady flasher—she had
on a raincoat and nothing else, you could just tell. She passed me and then
came back down the block. She looked strange but maybe she’d just had a
fight with somebody and left the house. If you read the Post, everybody
starts to look strange.
Monday, October 6, 1980
Cornelia Guest came down. She was drinking and she’s only fifteen but
she’s beautiful.
Vincent was putting together a one-hour show from six hours and it
looks great, really professional. Don Munroe went off to a video conference
in Nice. Worked till 5:30 (cab $7). Went home and glued myself and put on
black tie. Went to C.Z. Guest’s for drinks. A guy there told me, “We have
someone in common.” He said that his family owned all the brandy and
sherry in Spain and that in the sixties Nico was the girl in all their
advertisements in all the posters and subways and magazines, that she was
famous all over Spain. He wanted to know where this beautiful girl was
now and I said that it was a whole other person, that he’d never believe it,
that she was fat and a heroin addict. He wanted to see her and I said that if
she was still playing at the Squat Theater we could go see her.
C.Z. took the station wagon and drove us to the Met to the Cardin
fashion show dinner. It was the longest fashion show in the world. I was so
surprised, I think he’s kept every dress he ever made, there were so many of
them. I liked the show but the ladies were bored. I saw Bill Paley and
Barbara Allen and Slim Keith. I wish I’d taken pictures, it was all the right
people together.
I thought the diamonds in the eyes of Sao’s foxes were real, but she said
they weren’t. She asked where she could get an inexpensive ruby bracelet
and I told her I’d seen one for $42,000. She said it was for a man and I
guessed Patrice Calmette, because that’s who she’s been seeing, she’s
broken up with Naguib, she said he made her too emotional.
Bob Denison was there with his new girlfriend China Machado, and I’m
going to do a million faux pas with her because I just know I’ll never
recognize her. Catherine Oxenberg’s mother, Princess Elisabeth of
Yugoslavia, was there. She’s beautiful, and I knew it was her from the
moment she opened her mouth, they talk just alike, the voice. She was
wearing one of Carolina Herrera’s dresses. And I talked to Paloma’s mother,
Françoise Gilot.
I talked orchids with C.Z. Her gardening column is syndicated in six
newspapers now. I had a lot of fun. We were taking São home to the
Carlyle, we were outside getting a cab when André Oliver insisted we take
his limo. I saw Pierre Cardin at the end and told him his show was great—I
did like it because he’d kept so many dresses, from 1950-1980.
Oh and the dinner was in the Temple of Dendur room and they gave
everyone Temple of Dendur books and chocolate truffles and I squashed
some truffles between the pages of a couple of the books and it looked like
shit and São loved it. And a guy lost his book so I gave him mine and when
he opens it it’s going to look like shit. São had me autograph hers. We
dropped São and then me and then Princess Polignac who does P.R. for
Cardin, and then Bob. Home around 12:30.
Tuesday, October 7, 1980
Hermann-the-German said he’s 90 percent sure he has the pope for me to
do. And the other night at a party Mario D’Urso said, “I’ve been working
on getting the pope for you.” Everybody thinks I want to do the pope so
badly. Well I do, but I’m not desperate.
I turned down doing the Ronald Reagan cover for New York. The papers
have me down as a One-Night Republican.
Worked on backgrounds. Rupert was back from being out looking for
Mickey Mouse pictures for the New Myths series for Ron Feldman—
Mickey Mouse, Donald Duck, the Shadow. We’ll have to do something
different like throw diamond dust on them.
Glued myself together then picked up Carolina Herrera and we decided
to walk to Halston’s. She took her earrings off and gave them to me. We had
drinks. Victor was in his samurai pants, really big. Then we got in two
limos and went to the B. Altman dinner honoring American designers, it
was a New York Public Library benefit. Mary Lasker was there, and Estée
Lauder and Mary McFadden. I talked to “Suzy”—Aileen Mehle. She
looked beautiful, she had her two tits pushed up so you could look down.
I was sitting with Halston. We decided I should only take pictures of the
twenty waiters. Victor and I went to the bathroom and he took off his
samurai pants and I wore them as a cape. We thought the bathroom was
empty but as we were leaving everybody came out of the stalls. April Axton
was there with Sam Wagstaff who looked older. I accused April of being
Jewish and she said how could she be since I’ve seen her at my church, St.
Vincent Ferrer. I brought up about how April once accused me of raping her
dog in a bathroom. The dog had followed me in and then when I came out,
he came out with me. She’s awful but she is funny. I told her again that
those photographs she gave Sam that I took of her in the sixties were now
worth $1,000,1 rubbed it in.
Then Carolina and I went to Carmen D’Alessio’s dinner for her forty
friends at Mr. Chow’s. Lester Persky was giving millions of toasts, he was
drunk. He toasted Henry Geldzahler who wasn’t even there. Then he forced
me to give a toast, so my toast was, “Free drinks from Lester for
everybody.”
Wednesday, October 8, 1980—New York—Port
Jervis, New York—New York
Picked Brigid up (cab $7). We were driving up to Charles Rydell’s house in
Port Jervis to interview him on his bit part in Union City. Then went to pick
up Doc Cox on 72nd Street, he was late. Doc Cox was driving us up there
in his Rolls. He told Brigid she couldn’t smoke in the car, that it would ruin
the smell of the good leather, and she started to go crazy—when she wanted
to have a cigarette she had to lean her head out, so she was in a bad mood.
We got there and the Doc mixed martinis and Brigid had one, her first of
the day. I took pictures. Brigid ran out to pick “fresh tom-ah-toes,” but by
the end of the day she was drunk and they were just tom-ay-toes. I went out
and picked plums and we were eating them—even though they did have so
much bug spray on them, they were so good. I had about ten. Then I picked
cherry tomatoes and real tomatoes. Brigid was drinking martinis out in the
tomato patch and she lost her martini glass in the patch.
Brigid and Charles kept talking about “lunch at Flo-Jean, lunch at Flo-
Jean,” and saying, “You’ve never seen anything like it in your life.” And the
more they kept saying that, the more you just wanted to hate it. But we got
there and, well, you’ve never seen anything like it in your life. It’s the
sickest restaurant I think I’ve ever been to. A big rambling restaurant run by
Flo and Jean and filled with baby dolls, a million of them. All colors.
Because the place is very colorful. Napkins that’re pink and green and
yellow—just really a lot of color. Either Flo or Jean said her husband died
in 1929. The food was the worst, but there was a lot of it. I gained four
pounds and all I had was mashed potatoes and sweet relish. We had a lot of
drinks there, Brigid went on with her martinis. Charles paid for the lunch
but I bought souvenirs. Everybody had a good time. This restaurant had
rooms and rooms that just went on and on, and they have weddings and
parties there. It took up like a fourth of the Delaware River.
Brigid was drunk, she kissed all the waitresses. Then she began telling
me food stories she’d never told before, like how she once went to the
Oyster Bar in Grand Central Station and ordered a three-pound lobster and
a nice waitress brought it to her but it didn’t look like three pounds to
Brigid. Brigid said, “I am a compulsive eater and I know my food and this
is not a three-pound lobster.” This lobster was costing like $39. The
waitress said, “Oh, I’m sure it is.” So Brigid said, “Then let’s go weigh it,
and if this lobster is three pounds I’ll give you $10.” So they went into the
kitchen and put it on a scale and it weighed less than one pound! So the
waitress was really embarrassed and said they wouldn’t charge her.
Brigid was by now wacko, drunk, really drunk. I watched TV on
Charles’s Betamax. Charles has porno movies but they’re all straight porno
movies like the Debbie Dallas one. He only likes straight porno because he
(laughs) only likes straight guys. So I watched those.
We’d finished lunch at 5:30 but Charles was taking us to dinner at 6:00.
Oh, and it turned out Brigid made out with the farmhand down the road
once when she visited Charles. Charles said to her, “Did you fuck the
farmboy down the road? He’s been acting different with me ever since you
were here.” And she confessed that she had. It was one afternoon when she
was alone and only 125 pounds. She decided she wanted some crème
fraîche and that she’d go right to the cows. So she walked and walked and
she came upon a farmhand. And now this farmhand acts funny with Charles
because he thinks it was Charles’s wife or girlfriend that he fucked.
And a hustler came by who only charges $30 because it’s just a small
town. It’s really a gay Peyton Place.
Doc Cox drove us back and dropped us off.
Friday, October 10, 1980
Bob called and said that Jamie Kabler had cancelled going out to Brooklyn
College that night to see Ron Reagan dance, so we didn’t know how we
were going to get there. But then Bob called back and said a limo would
pick us up at 6:30. We sat through three ballets waiting for Ron. The
creative crappy stuff. Then Ron did his things, he was okay. After telling
Bob that he didn’t do jazz he was doing a jazz number and he was good at
that. He could actually be a good song-and-dance man, probably, like that
blond guy who was popular during the war, you know, Van Johnson.
It was raining out. A girl from the Reagan committee came over to Bob
and said she’d been calling him all day, that his interview with Patti Davis,
the Reagan daughter, could happen tomorrow, so Bob was thrilled. Patti’s
the one who lived with the Eagles. Then she came over herself and she was
tall and sort of pretty, I thought, but she was wearing funny clothes, a
sweater and something. Vincent videotaped her. I said to her that when we
did the actual interview, maybe she could wear some fancy clothes, and she
said, “These are my fancy clothes.” I said. “Well then maybe you could
wear something with a good label in them.” And she said, “No I’ll probably
come even more casual to be interviewed.” So I gave up and said, “Oh
forget it.” So she looked sort of pretty to me, but then looking at her later on
the video, how could these kids have missed their parents’ good looks? I
mean, Dad was so gorgeous.
Monday, October 13, 1980
I left the office and walked toward the big Columbus Day parade. Walked
to 42nd and Sixth Avenue (cab $5.50).
The day was really depressing because I had to talk to the accountants
about taxes all morning. I ate crackers and coffee.
Bob picked me up in a limo and we picked up São to go to the Jackie O.
party for Diana Vreeland’s book Allure at the International Center for
Photography at 94th and Fifth. It was a small party, only seventy people
were allowed. São said that a robbery was just foiled at the Carlyle. Three
gunmen at 4 A.M. I scared her when I told her they were probably there
because they knew she was. And I believe that.
Jackie O. arrived. I was afraid to take pictures so I gave one of the
newspaper photographers my camera to take a picture with. Chris Hemphill
who worked on the book was in heaven, he made it so that I had to sit next
to him. He’s just always rubbed me the wrong way. And on the jacket it said
he was (laughs) “associated with Andy Warhol.” His date was Deborah
Turbeville. A trembling kid behind a stairway asked if he could take my
picture. He said, “I’m an artist.”
Jackie was there with the Morgan Library guy, Charles Ryskamp. She
had Gloria Vanderbilt at her table. And the de la Rentas. Oh I hate them.
Françoise doesn’t kiss me anymore. Good. They wanted to go home early.
Got home and the music in my house was blasting from top to toe—
Aurora was entertaining a gentleman friend and I was so embarrassed that
I’d come home before she expected. They were playing my new Bee Gees
record.
Tuesday, October 14, 1980
It was a Paloma Picasso day. Went to breakfast at Tiffany’s for her. The
jewelry was pretty but I have the same stuff from the forties. It’s copies of
the forties. And Paloma did her little heart-shaped Elsa thing. It was
expensive stuff—$27,000 for a bracelet.
After work I glued myself and went to Mr. Chow’s for dinner for
Paloma (cab $4). Saw Fran Lebowitz and told her she should go find a guy
to have a hot love affair with because then if she ever has to write about
one, she won’t be blank-a-roo. Perry Ellis looked really sexy with long hair.
Everybody was somebody. Thomas Ammann was in town from Argentina,
he said it’s so expensive there, he doesn’t know how anyone lives. He had a
limo and I got home at 1:00.
Wednesday, October 15, 1980
Paloma was on the Today Show and she shouldn’t do it—talking about all
the jewelry she has—she’s going to get kidnapped.
Had a meeting with some South American lady to pick out her painting.
She brought a couple of beautiful Venezuelan ladies with her. And the
infamous Ronnie Levin came down. Somebody had warned me he was in
town so it wasn’t a shock. Nobody paid attention to him at the office and he
walked around like he owned the place and then he left.
Thursday, October 16, 1980
Vincent was setting up to videotape the interview that John Richardson was
going to do with Paloma. She came with her husband Raphael and the
friend, Xavier. The Tiffany’s guy arrived with the jewelry.
And David White came by with a letter from Rauschenberg—David
works for him now—saying that the tables I have were done by him,
because he did them when Jane Holzer was trying to go into the art
furniture business in the late sixties or early seventies, and then the business
fell through, and I got them. So it’s great, that Rauschenberg wrote the letter
saying they were by him because now maybe someday he’ll sign them.
Then Juan Hamilton called and said that he and Georgia O’Keeffe were
at the Mayfair and they were coming down at 4:30, and I said to come right
away because Paloma was there, so they did. Everyone was thrilled with
everyone.
People thought Juan was going to marry Georgia, but he just got married
to someone else and now his wife is expecting a baby. Georgia was wearing
a black thing around her head. This time she seemed really old. You have to
catch her every minute as if she’ll sit in a chair that isn’t there. But on the
video Vincent made she looked young and alert. She does know everything
that’s going on, it’s just that she moves older now.
Then they all left. Rupert came up and then I got some work done.
Worked till 8:30 and Jay Shriver agreed to stay late, too. Then because they
worked overtime I invited Rupert and Jay to 65 Irving and I had John
Reinhold meet us there. Jay’s from Milwaukee. He said his mother is all
Czechoslovakian. Not from there, but a hundred percent.
Oh, and Mary Tyler Moore’s son committed suicide and now Ordinary
People is really going to do business and everybody’s going to really hate
her because they’ll be thinking that that’s really the way she is.
Tuesday, October 21, 1980
I ran into John Curry in the street but I didn’t recognize him when he said hi
to me—not till three blocks later. So I decided to call and get tickets to go
see him in Brigadoon.
Oh, I ran into a boy whose job is to go shopping for John and Yoko, to
buy them clothes and things. I asked him if they’d ever made him bring
anything back and he said just once. I asked him if they ever wore any of
the clothes they bought since they don’t go out, and he said, “They’re going
to make a comeback. They’ve been wearing them to the studio.” Oh, and
the best thing he said was that when he started to work for them he had to
sign a paper that said, “I will not write a book about John Lennon and/or
Yoko Ono.” Isn’t that great? He said he loves his job. I should find
somebody to help me shop—show me where all the good new things are.
Oh, and I had a fight with the real estate guy. The building I wanted so
badly on 22nd Street that I told him to keep me informed on, he said went
into contract on Friday. I was so mad. And then he told me that we had an
appointment to look at the Con Ed building on 12th Street. And that’s a
great building but it’s just too far downtown, I can’t face it. It’s $1.5 plus
it’d be another million to fix up.
We missed the opening of Brigadoon. John Curry wasn’t great, he was
just adequate, but he’s a good actor. I just loved the show. The guy in front
of us was from George Lois with a good Irish name, maybe Callaghan, he’s
the one I worked with when I did that Braniff commercial with Sonny
Liston. And he told me the best sick joke. What are Bing Crosby and John
Wayne getting for Christmas? Steve McQueen.
Backstage I told John the show was so exciting and he said how I didn’t
recognize him on the street and I explained that it was the hairdo, that I
recognized him three blocks later. I asked him to dinner but he said he was
having dinner with friends.
Wednesday, October 22, 1980
Vincent was trying to get the Copleys down to the office because Bill
Copley had suggested getting a portrait done of his new wife, Marjorie the
madam. He suggested it. Bill’s very happy, but she’s gotten him to fire all
the servants who were with him before she married him, and it’s all too
strange. I hope nothing happens to him.
The good-looking Glorious Food waiter who’s getting his master’s in
psychiatry at Columbia had invited me to dinner. But then I got cold feet
and told him I had to do an interview with Bob, which I didn’t. He was
going to show me around Columbia. But I just can’t go out with people I
don’t know. But then, it’s hard to take girls places because you have to pick
them up. It’s easier to go out with boys who’ll pick you up. I’m getting like
Mrs. Vreeland.
On channel 2 they had a hidden camera on some 1980 census workers
drinking and taking cocaine on the job and then sitting down and making up
names to fill out forms because they got $4 a name.
Saturday, October 25, 1980
It was gusting winds, stood on the corner for twenty-five minutes before I
got a cab. Sean McKeon the Wilhelmina model called from Japan. It was
Sunday there. Bob was working on the Ten Straight Men For São dinner
that he’d promised her, still trying to find some straight guys. Every straight
man cancelled. I guess they won’t come out with us without Richard
Weisman and the athletes. Dropped Rupert (cab $6.50).
Bob was ringing the doorbell, he had a limo with São. We went to
Hélène Rochas and Kim D’Estainville’s at the Olympic Tower for a drink.
It was windy. São had just had her hair done and she said that she would
never live there because when you walk in the door the draft is so strong
that your hairstyle always goes. She said she knew a couple of women
who’ve moved out because of that. So before she went in, we had to go in
and have the guy close the inner door and that got rid of the wind and then
she came in.
Then we went to dinner at 65 Irving. We picked up Franco Rossellini on
the corner in our limo. We yelled, “Mary!” and he didn’t hear us, and then,
“Porno Queen!” and he still didn’t hear us and he was wearing a cape and
finally he saw us. He’d told Bob earlier in the day that he was retiring from
the movie business because he’d made so much money on Caligula.
Sunday, October 26, 1980
Iran was supposed to be letting the hostages go. But then it seems like the
Republicans are the ones that keep saying they’re getting out, so that when
they don’t it’ll look even worse for Carter. Like the Post has it front page
and they’re for Reagan. And on the news they’re saying that Israel is giving
parts to Iran for their military equipment. The cable TV guy in a small town
said it was true but the government denies it.
I watched Sabrina on TV and William Holden and Audrey Hepburn
looked so old. It seemed so old-fashioned talking about Long Island and the
North Shore. I walked the dogs. I watched Hooper and my God, it was
great, just Burt Reynolds and his usual lines. He played a stunt man.
Monday, October 27, 1980
Bob and I were talking about how hard it was to find Ten Straight Men, and
somebody said that that should be my next portfolio—ten men who’ve
never had a homosexual experience.
I had to meet Marjorie Copley, who was having her picture taken for a
portrait. Rupert was the makeup person. She’s light, her hair was in pigtails
and she took them out and it went down to her ass, she’d just washed it and
it smelled good. We had lunch. She’s going to school. She was a science
major but she wasn’t smart enough and now she wants to do social sciences
and I told her oh no. Bill looks great. The only thing we’re still worried
about is that she did fire all the people who worked for him. She didn’t
seem pushy or tough like I expected, though. She just did whatever I asked
her to. She was nice.
Jed bought the apartment right across the hall from Stuart Pivar’s in the
building on West 67th Street next to the Café des Artistes. He’s going to use
it as an office for his decorating business so his clients and all the workmen
won’t be tramping in and out of the house all day anymore, so that’ll be a
relief.
I called Jane Holzer. I said I’d pick her up for the Diane Von Furstenberg
party for Diana Vreeland. Worked till 8:00, then cabbed ($5.50) to pick Jane
up at the Volney on 74th and Madison where she’s got the penthouse with
Rusty now. Jane’s apartment is small but nice. Rusty answered the door and
he’s put on weight because I guess he spent the summer with his father,
Lenny, but he’s so charming. It’s like listening to Cary Grant. He says,
“Love to you, Mommy.” Jane’s now in investing and real estate and movies.
So then cabbed to DVF’s ($3). As soon as we got to the building Warren
Beatty walked in behind us, but when he saw us he went outside again, he
didn’t want to go into the same elevator. I told Jane he’d come in and then
gone out again and she said that if he’d seen her he wouldn’t have done
that. Right after we got upstairs Warren came in and he kissed Jane and I
told him, “Oh Warren, you’re so mean, you wouldn’t ride up with us,” and
he said he was looking for someone he was supposed to meet downstairs.
But he didn’t come in with anyone, so … He looked sexy but a little older
and a little puffier—his hair’s that Hollywood way, you know, that looks
like a hat? Richard Gere was there and I introduced him to Jane and he said,
“Oh Baby Jane, you’re a legend. I read about you in Popism.” Apollonia
was there and ‘man and a beautiful young girl named Diane Lane—I don’t
know if she was with Lou Adler or not.
Thursday, October 30, 1980
At the office John Cale came over, he wanted me to do an album cover for
him. He’s looking good. He had a girl with him. I signed all his old record
covers.
Lewis Allen came down with the dummy-makers who’re making a robot
of me for his play. We had to sit around with them for an hour so the
dummy-makers could study my face to see if I’d be a good dummy. And
they were funny-looking, the people from Walt Disney or someplace like
that. And if a dummy moves and it makes, say, three mouth movements and
two eye movements, that takes 100 motors and every time you add another
movement you have to add like 20 more motors inside the figure. We still
haven’t signed with Lewis Allen because we sent the contract up to Paul
Weiss and they said it was a ridiculous piece of paper because it’s so
involved.
Friday, October 31, 1980
Halston had a bash in his showroom at the Olympic Tower for the birthday
of Hiro. Then Victor said we should go downtown to the big new place
called the Saint that’s in the Old Fillmore East theater. The old Village
Theater.
We went down and Victor got on his knees and begged for us to be let
in. I found out that it’s owned by our old friend Bruce Mailman who used to
run the St. Mark’s Baths and was always around with projects and things.
He was probably at the Saint when we were, but I probably didn’t recognize
him. It’s better than Studio 54. They have a room in the back and everybody
looks alike—bluejeans and no shirts and mustaches, and no girls allowed,
except they let Pat Cleveland in, and they let ten lesbians have
memberships. There’s a waiting list for two years and they said you can
only get in if somebody drops out. The light show was great, like the
Hayden Planetarium. Then Halston was leaving at 3:00 and I left, too.
Wednesday, November 5, 1980— Düsseldorf—
Baden Baden—Stuttgart
I woke up at 3:00 in the morning and I heard the sad news of Carter losing
so desperately to Reagan. It was the first time a president conceded so early.
He had tears in his eyes.
I couldn’t sleep and I took a Valium.
Thursday, November 6, 1980—Frankfurt—
Düsseldorf
Met Dr. Siegfried Unseld, he’s the publisher of Hermann Hesse and Goethe,
really good-looking. I thought he was going to be easy to photograph
because he was so good-looking, but he was really hard. His good looks
didn’t come through for the camera.
I’d brought Chris Makos on the trip to help me, but he wouldn’t carry
my bag or do anything—all he cared about was taking photographs for
himself.
The next location was like an hour and a half away, in Darmstadt. Went
to photograph a lady who’s sort of a German Diane Von Furstenberg, she’s
a top clothes manufacturer—her company’s called Tink or Fink. The house
was beautiful. She was dressed really like a businesswoman, though, in a
velvet suit with hankies coming out of everywhere. She was really sweet
and all the pictures came out well.
After a long drive to Dusseldorf, Chris and I had a fight because the
walls at the Breitenbacher Hof Hotel are very thin and through the wall I
could hear Christopher in his room making phone calls and I got nervous
because I’m hearing him dial eighteen digits and I know he’s calling long
distance to Peter Wise in New York and it’s expensive.
Friday, November 7,1980—Düsseldorf
There was some crazy artist at the Rodney Ripps opening at Hans Mayer’s
gallery and I had to go into the bathroom with him, so I made Christopher
go into the bathroom with me and the crazy artist made me sit in the shower
with my hands on the floor and he Polaroided, and then he made me take
off my shoes and Polaroided my feet and I looked like a dog on all fours
and it was so stupid. They say he’s the new Beuys and he’s a bald-headed
weirdo with plaid pants and very tall and he looked like he had a big dick.
And I don’t know, does that sound like he was a fairy? No, he was too
serious to be a fairy.
Saturday, November 8, 1980—Düsseldorf—Paris
It took me till 11 A.M. to pack all the souvenir dishes into one suitcase and
all the postcards and stuff. Had to get to the airport fast. Flew to Paris.
Cabbed to Fred’s apartment ($30). Thomas Ammann arrived in town just
for the day with a decathlon discus thrower. We went around to all the
wonderful shops and there was so much Deco around you just couldn’t
believe it.
Later Jerry Hall called and said she wanted us to come to see her and
Mick’s new apartment on that island in the middle of the Seine. Mick was
in the recording studio. She asked me to bring two bottles of champagne so
I bought some ($200) and we went over there.
I talked to Thomas and I really made him tell what he knew about the
Jed situation and he finally did. Thomas Ammann is the person who
brought Alan Wanzenberg into the picture, Thomas knew him first.
Then Fred wanted to go dancing and I just wanted to go home so
Thomas dropped me. And I came home and waited around for the phone to
ring and it didn’t and I was depressed and I put my earphones in with La
Bohème.
Sunday, November 9, 1980—Paris
Thomas called from New York, he’d taken the Concorde early in the
morning. The stuff he told me the night before had made me really upset.
He said not to repeat anything because he doesn’t like to get involved with
talking about people’s relationships. But he actually didn’t tell me anything
that I didn’t already know, it was just that it was upsetting to hear it.
Monday, November 10, 1980—Paris
Philippe Morillon called and said he was bringing over some Interview
material at 7:00.
Mick was coming over at 4:00 and I wanted to avoid him because, I
don’t know, what can you say to Mick Jagger? He wanted to be alone with
Fred Hughes anyway—Fred’s the one he talks to, I don’t know what about.
Christopher and I walked to Cerutti’s and Bambi was playing right next
door and since it was a holiday the mothers were standing out there with
their kids and it was the longest line of tiny little kids waiting to get into a
movie. It seemed so sad that these little kids had to wait, they should’ve
opened the doors and let them right in.
Went to the Café Flore looking for Shirley Goldfarb’s ghost (cab $8).
And Shirley’s ghost was not around. We sat inside and didn’t see anyone we
knew.
Went to a bookshop and I finally came across the next idea I really want
to work on—mothers with babies sucking on their tits. It’s just so erotic, I
think that it’s a good subject. Actually Eunice Shriver gave me the idea, and
the other night we saw a madonna in an apartment, a little baby on top of a
sexy lady, a cherub sucking on a tit, and there’s something about that that
looks good. So Christopher’s going to find me some mothers with babies
just born.
Then Chris’s hotel was right next to the Flore so he took me up to show
me his room, which we’re paying for and I thought it was such a dump, but
he had gotten a TV and he was really thrilled.
In the Herald Tribune they describe the horrible death of Steve
McQueen. They really went into detail.
Rocksavage invited us over to see his place. There was a big piano and I
asked him to play and he just played the most beautiful music. I haven’t
heard good music played on the piano in so long. I didn’t know—these
different periods you go into, I never even get to a concert anymore.
Later Fred poured me a big glass of Mirabelle and I guess I told him I
had personal problems and then we talked about art things to do. Fred
thought we should do a series of Disney/Warhol, that we should do Snow
White and a couple of the dwarfs, and Bambi and anything—Donald Duck.
And so I was really thrilled after we decided to do that, and I hope Ron
Feldman will think it’s a good idea.
I was reading Interview and Bob really wants to drop Tinkerbelle but her
interview with George Burns—who I think’s had it—she somehow made
very interesting. It’s a good piece of writing and I think we should keep her.
She gets Bob really upset, but she’s one of our good writers.
Saturday, November 15, 1980—Cologne—Paris
We were going to a monastery and we had to be there at 12:00 because if
we got there one minute after 12:00 we wouldn’t be allowed in. Herman
drove really fast in this pouring rain. After we got there we weren’t allowed
to say one word to each other. We went into the lunchroom and then the
monk read something for twenty minutes while we ate our lunch—sour
apple cider and lentil soup which tasted like canned to me but when I said
so everyone just looked at me like I’m crazy, but—I think I know my soup.
There was one really good-looking priest and he was behind me. Then
we left and went to Paris.
Sunday, November 16, 1980—Paris—New York
Got to New York and dropped Fred off (limo $S0). I had an appointment to
meet Bruno Bischofberger at the office at 11:00. He invited us to Julian
Schnabel’s loft on 20th Street. He’s a friend of Ronnie’s, an artist who’s
with Castelli now. We got to the place and there were three limos out front
—Bruno sure knows how to spoil artists fast. Julian lives in the same
building as Les Levine, and I was so jealous, Julian bought it so cheap four
years ago. He’s just married, he introduced me to a sort of beautiful wife.
And does sort of bad paintings. He’s very pushy. There’s this whole group
of kids doing this bad art, I think they’re all influenced by Neil Jenney.
Then Bruno comes along and says, “I’ll buy everything,” and these kids get
used to big money, and I don’t know what they’ll do when it’s all over—oh
but by then it’ll be something different, I guess.
I went to church, gave my thanks for the trip and getting back alive. Did
phone calls, and somehow got mesmerized. I got so nervous thinking about
all these new kids painting away and me just going to parties, I figured I’d
better get cracking. Thomas Ammann called inviting me to dinner with
Richard Gere, but I was too tired. I watched Saturday Night Fever on TV
and it was great.
Tuesday, November 18, 1980
I was invited to lunch at the Met so I stayed uptown. All the people there
were so classy and elegant and smart and when I tried to say little
comments they wouldn’t listen to me. They were rich and young and
glamorous and English.
Had a martini with a little vodka. I needed it for courage because the
people were so highfalutin’. Prince and Princess Michael of Kent arrived
and they were really classy. She had on a little hat and a big dress, and she
explained that she was pregnant—she was friendly to me. She showed me a
picture of her eighteen-month-old baby. The prince had on a well-cut suit—
the English know how to give you a new body with a suit, putting the stuff
in all the right places. Left there and went down to work.
I’d asked John Reinhold to be my dinner date so he picked me up (cab
$5). Downstairs at the Italian Pavilion. Joe MacDonald was trying to slip
out because he said he had “a fuck date.” We finished dinner at 12:00 (cab
$4.50). After I got home John called and said his wife wasn’t home, that
this was the first time that’d ever happened. I didn’t know what to say, I’d
already taken a Valium and didn’t know what to do.
Wednesday, November 19, 1980
Walked up Madison, decided to visit Jane Wyeth at Sotheby’s. We have two
big ads from Christie’s and we’re still trying to get Sotheby’s. The auction
business is so booming. I couldn’t even carry all the catalogues I walked out
with. These auction places are so fake, though. They just put things out
again if they don’t sell them and then eventually a sucker who’s born every
minute comes along. I wish I’d thought of that line—“There’s a sucker born
every minute” (cabs downtown $3.50, $3).
Ran into Edmund Gaultney, his opening of my show was at night. It was
a show of something you wouldn’t think I’d do at a place you wouldn’t
think I’d be, but he didn’t tell me the one great thing about it until after it
was over—that it was only for one day! Isn’t that great? But he didn’t tell
anybody.
I did an interview for Henry Post for a New York magazine article he’s
doing on elegance, things money can buy. I suppose he’ll probably promote
Jed’s fancy decorating business in the article. They’re friends. Fred and I
had a business talk. Bob got some Washington ads because of the Reagan
kids’ interviews in the issues.
Went to the gallery, it’s at 24 East 82nd, and it was really cute. Tom
Cashin was there, he said he tried out for Oklahoma! and I told him he
should try out for Brigadoon, he’d be better than John Curry. I was standing
next to Paloma’s husband, Mr. Picasso, but I just can’t remember anybody’s
name, so I couldn’t introduce him to anybody, and I think he was mad.
Chris Makos was there with Peter Wise and a gay vice-president of
Paramount, Jon Gould.
We went to the Gibbon for dinner. It’s half French food and half
Japanese. I like the Japanese half better. The headwaiter finally showed his
true colors and was a big fairy. Dinner must have cost Edmund a fortune.
Home at 12:00.
Thursday, November 20, 1980
Called the office ($.25 because I didn’t have a dime). Walked down
Madison. Somebody stopped me with really bad breath. I’ve been trying to
clean Archie’s teeth but it’s not working. I love the natural toothpaste I get
at Brownies—cinnamon and spearmint—but what I really love is Close-up
and Ultra-Brite. Close-up is so good, really poisonous-looking. And when
Brigid and I go to May’s, you see people opening the toothpaste tubes and
taking a taste. Brigid does that.
Worked till 7:30. Dropped Rupert off. Barbara Allen called and was
upset with what Scavullo said in the newspaper—that he doesn’t know how
some people get into high society because they don’t know anything, like
Barbara Allen. And she had on her high-class voice (cab $6).
Then I went to Lee Thaw’s party at 72nd and Park for the Maharaja of
Baroda because he’d just done a book called Palaces of Jaipur published by
Alex Gregory who publishes all the big bombs. And the maharaja said he
was going to be on To Tell the Truth next week, which was so funny
because I mean you hear people at these parties saying they’re going to be
on the Today Show and Meet the Press and things, and then he says, “I’m
going to be on To Tell the Truth.” So they’ll be guessing who he is.
I met Shirley Lord, who’s English, from Vogue. A beauty editor. She was
fun. She has big tits. And next to her was Daniel Ludwig, the richest man in
the world, and he wasn’t talking and she wanted to get him to, and she
knew the odd kinds of information, like how scientists can now look with
microscopes at babies and predict where their future wrinkles will be. And
then I talked to Mary McFadden and she was such a camp. She said,
“People put down your portraits, and I defend you. I tell them, ‘At least
they have good color!’ “ Home at 12:00.
Saturday, November 22, 1980
Got up early. Cabbed ($4) to the office to meet Diana Vreeland and Prince
and Princess Michael of Kent.
I’d painted a background and thought it would dry before anyone got
there and that I could roll it up. So I had it spread out on the floor and then
suddenly they arrived and Prince Michael walked right on it, he thought it
was a floor covering. So Fred asked him to autograph it. And he just signed
it “Michael,” he doesn’t use “Prince.”
Monday, November 24, 1980
Bob said that Cal—the friend of Ron Reagan called “Chocolate Boy”—
called and said that Ron had just gotten married, so Bob set up a dinner the
next night, Tuesday. Then Bob was being interviewed by some newspaper
and he told the girl we were having dinner with them at Le Cirque and I got
mad and told Bob he shouldn’t have, so then he changed it to La Grenouille
because otherwise they would have sent a photographer to Le Cirque. The
story about the marriage made the papers by 5:30.
Fred intercepted a call for me from “Chuck Roast” because he thought it
was a crazy kid, but it was actually the Japanese kid who came to interview
me once who asked me to give him a name.
And downstairs the building directory was smashed right beside my
name. It gave me an eerie feeling.
Tuesday, November 25, 1980
Mike the super came up and said that there wouldn’t be heat over the
holiday weekend. That was a big disappointment because that’s when I was
planning to get all my work done, that’s why I was staying in town.
The Reagan kid cancelled dinner like I told Bob he would. Then it was
in the papers that the Reagans were honeymooning with the Warhol crowd
at Le Cirque.
Thursday, November 27, 1980
Got up and watched the Thanksgiving Day parade on TV. Happened to see
Berkeley, John Reinhold’s little daughter—Superman’s float came up and
practically touched them on the twentieth floor.
Chris Makos called, he was up in Massachusetts seeing Jon Gould of
Paramount Pictures.
Worked at the office alone. Curley called and invited me to
Thanksgiving dinner, he was cooking it at his parents’ apartment on Park
Avenue. I said that I’d come up after dinner. Then Catherine called. I asked
her if she wanted to come over and make it look a little like last year. She’d
just gotten in from London and had had turkey dinner on the plane, and said
she was the only one on Laker. I guess no one travels on Thanksgiving.
Cabbed to Curley’s with Catherine ($3).
Tuesday, December 2, 1980
Richard Weisman called and invited me to the party for the famous
Hollywood photographer George Hurrell at Doubles. Got there and Douglas
Fairbanks, Jr. was coming out, and I asked him why he was leaving and he
said because he’d stood in front of his photograph and had his picture taken
by the press so then it was time to leave.
The big stars there were Lillian Gish, Maureen Stapleton, Tammy
Grimes. I met Mr. Hurrell and he’s really strong and straight and Paul
Morrissey had said that he was about to pop off any minute, but there he
was and he knew all about me and he raved and he was sweet and I asked
him if I could take a picture and he said sure.
Maureen O’Sullivan was next to me and she was saying, “Oh, I’ve just
been throwing out so many Hurrells and Clarence Bulls, we’ve been
moving.” I asked her what it was like to get so close to Johnny
Weissmuller’s body and she said it was okay but that she only was
interested in intellectuals, my dear. I said, “So is Mia really going to marry
Woody Allen?” And she said that she really didn’t know, and then I told her
that I was only kidding, that I didn’t care. And I met Teresa Wright and she
looked good.
Diana Vreeland called and said how much she loved her cover story in
Interview. The cover makes her look about twenty, and she said, “The only
problem is I’m beginning to think I look like that woman on the cover.”
Thursday, December 4, 1980
We’re taking the Reagan kids to dinner on Saturday, just Bob and me,
because his wife Doria wants to work for Interview—they’re going on the
road for four months and she wants to do a column for us from the road.
Jerry Zipkin said that they liked Chinese or Japanese food, that that was
more their style.
Friday, December 5, 1980
Catherine said she was going to France for a week because her Nazi step-
grandfather just died, Sir Oswald Mosley, and her family was getting
together there so she thought it would be a good thing to do for the book on
the Mitfords that she’s helping her father with.
And did I say that when Florinda Bolkan came down to have her picture
taken, she wouldn’t do a thing until Marina Cicogna said it was okay—she
wouldn’t even put her head down. And Marina is just like a truck driver, she
pushes everybody around, and if that’s what love is, I guess that’s what love
is.
Saturday, December 6, 1980
I called Bob to see if our dinner with Ron and Doria Reagan was on and he
said it was. Rupert was there waiting at the office when I got there, and Jay
came in. And then Joe Dallesandro called from California, somewhere
around Sacramento, I think. He was calling for money of course, he said he
was in a truck with his mother, they live in a truck or a trailer, I don’t know.
I told him he should go to Los Angeles and be discovered. It’s so absolutely
boring—he never calls and says do you want to do something together, it’s
just always for money.
Worked all afternoon. Decided to go Christmas shopping. Rupert took
some Interviews and we went down to the Village. People seemed out
shopping early. I think this is going to be the most gigantic Christmas for
sales, I really do. Country-wide.
Ron and Doria were already at Nippon when we got there. The owner
took us to one of the private rooms. Ron was in his alligator T-shirt to show
off his muscles. The Secret Service jammed the place. The owner kept
bringing in toys for us—he gave the Reagans this new kind of bottle-opener
gun that opens up and you really could kill somebody with it. Bob asked if
we could go to the inauguration in January and they said we’d be getting
invitations. They said they were going to Bermuda soon, and Bob said he
was seeing Lily Auchincloss so he’d ask if it was okay for them to stay at
her house there. Doria’s really sweet and charming. Bob was so happy. We
left them with the Secret Service and got home—walked—about 12:30 or
1:00 (dinner $200). And life gets more exciting every day, but then I had to
go home to my horrible home life where the situation with Jed is getting
worse every day.
Monday, December 8, 1980
Walked to Halston’s. All his girls were there wearing all his clothes. There
were three limos out front and we went to the Met Museum, to Diana
Vreeland’s opening-night Costume Institute dinner. It was the 650 people
you know best. Someone who came in said John Lennon was shot and no
one could believe it, so someone called the Daily News and they said it was
true. It was scary, it was all anyone could talk about. He was shot outside
his house.
When I got home I turned on the TV and they said he was murdered by
somebody he gave an autograph to earlier in the evening.
Tuesday, December 9, 1980
The news was the same news that had been on all night, pictures of John
and old film clips. Had to take Archie and Amos down to the office to be
looked at by the Lewis Allen dummy people (cab $5). When I got there
Howdy Doody was waiting for me. I’m doing his portrait, he’s one of the
Big Myths.
After I photographed Howdy, I got into the barber’s chair that the
dummy people brought. They did the back of my head, they put a wig hat
on me. There were two photographers and Ronnie was taking 3-D pictures.
They put gook on and covered my ears and eyes. They said, “Pinch me if
you want to get out of it.” It was making me sick, and I had a cold, and I
had phlegm that I couldn’t cough up, it was awful. They finally took the
mold off but then they dropped it. They were saying, “We can save it, we
can save it.” But then they said they might have to do another one and I
said, “No you’re not.” They stuck my hands in some more gook and that got
some air bubbles so they lost a couple of fingers on that try. Then they did
my teeth. And while this was going on, Ron Reagan arrived, he’d just had
lunch with his father at the Waldorf. I was so out of it I couldn’t really talk.
Bob had given Doria the day off—she’s working for him now —but she
didn’t go to the Waldorf lunch because Nancy still couldn’t get over the
idea that her son had married without her consent.
And Bob was feeling his oats because the collector’s issue of the Daily
News that had “John Lennon Shot” headlines is the one that had the big
story on him in it—“The Man Behind Andy Warhol.” It was a long article,
but it was boring.
I watched the John Lennon news and it’s so scary. I mean, the other day,
the kid named Michael who’s been writing me letters for five years just
walked in—somebody buzzed him in—and he walked over and handed me
another letter and left. Where does he live? In institutions?
Wednesday, December 10, 1980
The papers still have the Lennon news. The one who killed him was a
frustrated artist. They brought up the Dali poster he had on his wall. They
always interview the janitors and the old schoolteachers and things. The kid
said the devil made him do it. And John was so rich, they say he left a $235
million estate.
And the “vigil” is still going on at the Dakota. It looked so strange, I
don’t know what those people think they’re doing.
Sunday, December 14, 1980
I was in a cab with a black driver during the minutes that were supposed to
be silence to remember John and pray for his soul. He had a black station
on and they had a ten-minute silence and the disc jockey said, “We’re up
there with you, John,” and the driver laughed and said, “Not me, baby, I’m
stayin’ right down here.” So he turned to another station and that station
was (laughs) talking about the silence.
Catherine was thrilled because Tom Sullivan is back in town and he’s
telling her he loves her, but he’s full of baloney and she should be careful.
She was leaving her key in the mailbox for him.
Bob said that at the Ann Getty dinner we went to last night he heard
Diana Vreeland tell off “Suzy” for saying in the newspaper that the lights in
her Met show were too low. Diana said, “Now listen, Aileen, just in case
you didn’t realize it, the Metropolitan Museum is not a department store.
Nothing there’s for sale, so we really don’t have to light it up like
Bloomingdale’s.” And “Suzy” was mad but she couldn’t think of a
comeback.
Monday, December 15, 1980
I asked autograph seekers outside the Regency who they were waiting for
and they said James Cagney was staying there and that he was really hard to
get.
A lady from 67th Street rang the bell and said we were flooding her
house and I looked in the back and there was a lot of water, but I didn’t
know what to do until Jed came home. It was a water pipe broken, shooting
upwards.
Tuesday, December 16, 1980
Truman was reading at Lincoln Center and Brigid decided she wasn’t going
to go because she felt too fat, but she made me promise to swear that she
was there if he asked. Jane Holzer was sending the limo to pick me up. It
was the Mitzi Newhouse Theater, we had fourth-row center, next to Halston
and Martha Graham. Lester was there, and Suzie Frankfurt, and Rex Reed.
It wasn’t completely sold-out, but it was pretty filled. Truman was cute, he
explained each thing first, he got up on his toes and snapped his fingers and
it was like disco and that was the best part. He read and acted the parts out.
He read the maid story, and he read “A Christmas Memory” and a couple of
other ones. Then afterward everybody was telling him how wonderful he
was, because it was all friends. Rex told him the reading “touched my
soul.” Truman was shaking. The first thing he asked me was where’s Brigid
and I swore she was there, and he said, “Well, then where is she?” and I said
she had to go home, but I think he knew.
Wednesday, December 17, 1980
I was upset because two paintings cracked, I guess because of the cold.
Then a limo arrived and I had to leave with Robert Hayes to go to the
Mayfair to meet this German guy from Dusseldorf who wanted to meet me.
We only had drinks with him, champagne. I was being funny, I told him I
wanted to work on a line of “invisible clothes.” And as I was leaving he
said [imitates], “Just send me da particulars, I vant to work vid you on dis
line.” He wasn’t kidding.
Thursday, December 18, 1980
Got an urgent call from the office saying that there was a rock star down at
860 waiting to have his picture taken by me. I called Fred to find out what it
was about but he didn’t remember. I said I’d be right down, and it took
twenty-five minutes (cab $5.50). He turned out to be Rie Ocasek from the
Cars. They’re from Boston, and he has an earring and capped teeth and he’s
not really good-looking because he has dyed-black hair, but he’s sweet and
as charming as David Bowie. Lunch was actually for Diane Lane who Ara
Gallant was bringing down. She’s fifteen and so beautiful.
Then Bob was busy on the phone, and we had to meet Doria and Ron
and their friend Cal at the movie Flash Gordon on 53rd Street. They were in
the next-to-the-last row with the Secret Service behind them. The movie
wasn’t really good but it was fun to watch. Then after the movie they went
in their car and didn’t offer to take us so we got a cab up to the Gibbon
restaurant to meet them. Those kids aren’t going to have any friends,
because it’s just too scary being with them, with all these big guys guarding
them, you think you’re going to get bumped off. And the Secret Service
rented a room from a lady in their building—her living room—and they sit
in there and watch with the door open all the time. The Secret Service guys
I guess don’t like Japanese food because they just had coffee.
Cal said our invitations for the inauguration had been sent out already
and Bob asked Ron and Doria if we were invited to the right parties and
they said they thought so. They said they weren’t going to go in a
limousine, they were going to try to rent an army truck. Bob said how it was
easier to just go along in the limousine.
Bob told his Liz Taylor stories, but then he started talking about the
basement of Studio 54, and I don’t know what he was thinking of. Doria is
going to interview Adam Luders from the New York City Ballet for us.
Friday, December 19, 1980
C.Z. Guest called and I really have to make up my mind if I’m going out
there on Christmas Eve. And Cornelia was at the office all dolled up,
getting her picture taken. She wants to be a model.
John and Kimiko Powers came by with a present.
Saturday, December 20, 1980
Vincent was having a party so cabbed there ($5). It turned out to be a really
great party. I was taking pictures of this handsome kid I thought was a
model and then I was embarrassed because it turned out to be John-John
Kennedy. Fred brought him and Mary Richardson. And Chris Makos was
there taking party pictures. And Debbie Harry gave me a present, and she
said to open it up and I said no, that I’d wait till I got home, and I’m glad
that I did, because I just don’t know what it is. It’s this black thing. I
wonder if it’s a cock ring, because it’s rubber with a stick on it, but it has
this one piece that doesn’t make sense.
Monique’s getting ready to push her book, and she wants the cover of
Interview, which actually might be fun.
Sunday, December 21, 1980
Jed’s decided to move out and I don’t want to talk about it. The apartment
he bought on West 67th Street to work in, now he’s decided he’ll live in it,
too.
Went to church. Worked in the freezing cold at the office and I’m not
going to send in the rent.
Monday, December 22, 1980
A terrible day, no Christmas spirit at all, and it even got worse as the day
wore on. I screamed at everybody, and I made them feel bad, it was like that
all day. I couldn’t shake it, even at night. Curley started crying and I told
him he had to stop it or I was on the verge of cracking up.
I was supposed to go out to lunch with de Antonio but I didn’t want to. I
just ordered in and De and I ate in the conference room and the place was
freezing and Mike the super, the only one who knows how to get a little
heat out of the boiler, was out. I was in a terrible state, I felt a cold coming
on, and I just can’t work in the cold.
Hans Mayer came by to pick up some paintings and we had them
bubble-wrapped. I gave Hans a painting and I gave De a painting, trying to
get into the Christmas spirit, but I couldn’t. I paid some bills.
I thought C.Z. Guest’s Christmas Eve dinner would maybe be just the
thing to get me finally in the mood, so Bob and I decided we would go out
there and take Jerry Zipkin and Liz Smith and Iris Love, so that’s settled.
I’ll take Popisms to give as presents.
Curley called and invited me to dinner and then Whitney Tower called
and said Mick and Jerry would like to see me, and I asked if I could bring
Curley and they said yes. I stayed by the electric heater all afternoon, but if
I moved an inch away it was freezing.
I sent roses to Jon Gould—I want him to get Paramount to advertise in
Interview.
Curley picked me up in a limo at 9:00, then we picked up Whitney. Jerry
has a new apartment at 135 Central Park West and she just got a farm in
Texas with her money and she wants a tractor. She gave me a present, just
what I’ve always wanted—a complete set of china from the Concorde! And
I was so surprised, I was so thrilled, I don’t know how she knew I liked it.
But it’s so funny to get something you really really want. And Mick was so
friendly for the first time, talking and talking, and it was like we were best
friends, telling me all about leaving for Paris on the twenty-seventh for the
Herzog movie, Fitzcarraldo. And telling me all about it and being really
nice.
Meanwhile Curley was getting really drunk and I knew I had to get him
out of there soon when he started calling Mick “Michael” and taking
pictures. Curley still believes my father died in the Pittsburgh coal mines
and because his mother’s family, the Mêlions, own Pittsburgh, he feels
guilty, so that’s funny. So I got Curley out of there and I thought I could
sober him up a little if I took him to the Brasserie. He’s drinking so much
these days, and it’s still fun, but if he keeps it up, it’s like it’s going to turn.
At the Brasserie I ordered just everything ($50). Then Curley started crying
and I said he had to stop so then he was good and started laughing and
staggering again. He dropped me, and it was still only 1:30 and still
freezing.
Tuesday, December 23, 1980
I’ve been having the most un-Christmas spirit of my life. Woke up with my
little cold. The office called and said there was no heat down there, so I was
thinking about that, and then it started to snow and the flakes were so big
and beautiful but before I could get to the window with my camera it had
stopped.
The office was having the Christmas party, they said they were waiting
for me, they said they had turkey and ham and booze. I wanted to Christmas
shop but then I decided it might be too hard later to get a cab, so I got one
right then (cab $7). John John Kennedy was at the office, and Cornelia
Guest, and John Samuels, and Jimmy Burden—all these kids that I knew
when they were babies, it was so strange. And Jackie O. didn’t invite me to
her Christmas party this year. I gave out some Popisms. Ronnie gave me
one of his artworks, it was really great—a spear.
The article in The New York Times about Françoise de la Renta was just
so disgusting, as if she and Oscar have this great life, when it’s all just him
and the friend and her suffering through it. And John Richardson was
disinvited by them to Santo Domingo because he gave a quote, which
wasn’t even really bad. And Bob told me that it turns out Françoise wasn’t
born in Paris, she was born in Mozambique or someplace like that, and
she’s just—trash.
Wednesday, December 24, 1980
Cabbed up to Jerry and Mick’s apartment for Christmas lunch. Jerry’s
pregnant sister Cyndy just married Robin Lehman, and so everybody was
happy. Jerry’s mother was there. Jerry had an apron on that when you
unzippered it a big cock came out, so I was taking funny pictures of that,
her cooking a turkey with a cock in her hand.
Earl McGrath was there, and Ahmet Ertegun stopped by for a second.
The food was ready at 5:00 but it was supposed to have been ready at 2:00.
Everything was great, though, it was the best turkey and everything was
fresh, the peas and everything, so I porked it up.
The limo came at 6:30 to take us out to the Guests’. We picked up
Barbara Allen who was wearing a green taffeta YSL and then we went to
the “hem of Harlem”—that’s what Jerry Zipkin calls his neighborhood—
and picked up Jerry and he had Nelson Seabra with him. It was a sit-down
dinner and the turkey was terrible. It was like canned stuff, and the
cranberry sauce was canned and there were eighteen different desserts but
none of them were good. I was next to “Suzy” and Bob was next to Liz
Smith and Iris Love, and Iris had a kilt on and let me feel if she was
wearing underpants. Cornelia looked beautiful.
Then I had to get back to Halston’s in town and it had suddenly dropped
from forty degrees to minus fifteen. Halston gave me a green beaded dress
to hang in my closet. It’s like a $5,000 dress. It’s his art. But it’s not really
my favorite green although it’s a nice green. I would rather have had a red
one.
I felt another cold coming on and I wanted to go home to bed, but since
the house was empty I didn’t. I gave Halston a chocolate box of art candy
that I made, not too great, and a Diamond painting, and I gave Victor a Shoe
one. I got home about 1:30 and opened my packages. John Reinhold gave
me a little TV set, a 2” x 2” Sony Trinitron.
Thursday, December 25, 1980
It was the coldest day ever. And I’d been afraid to go to sleep because I was
alone in the house. I’d like to get Nena and Aurora’s brother Agosto to be a
bodyguard, although he’s like only two feet high, but he’s just out of the
Marine Corps and it’s “Yes, sir!” and “No, sir!” and he’s great. I was on my
way to work but since there was no heat, I decided I just couldn’t.
Picked up John Reinhold and we went to Sharon Hammond’s for
Christmas dinner (cab $5). But there wasn’t anybody good there.
Sharon took me in the other room and showed me a picture of her
English lord pissing, and his cock is like a horse’s. She doesn’t know if she
should marry him, but I told her she should, with a cock like that. He didn’t
give her the pillows she wanted for Christmas, he just gave her a TV for the
bathroom. And no jewelry. He’d given her jewelry for her birthday and five
minutes later she lost it in a cab so I guess he decided not to give her any
more.
Friday, December 26, 1980
The day after Christmas and I was doing Christmas cards for next year for
John Loring at Tiffany’s. Since he took ads in Interview, I have to do it, and
it’s a really good idea—diamonds with real diamond dust on it, a set of
nine. Each card has part of the diamond and when you put the nine together
it makes one diamond. It’s artistic, so if they don’t like it … What I always
remember when I think of Tiffany’s is how in the fifties I left my drawings
there once and somebody stole them.
I called Marina Schiano to say Merry Christmas. She’s going to Naples
to see her mother in the hospital. She gave me her sympathies about Jed
moving out. And she brought up how he’s out in Colorado skiing with Alan
Wanzenberg.
Wednesday, December 31, 1980
Still no heat at the office so it was hard to do things. Brigid called the
landlord a bastard on the phone, he’s in Horida.
Wilson Kidde called and said he’d made it with a girl.
I was busy till about 8:00, then we left. Dropped Rupert. Went home,
glued, then went over to Halston’s. Victor was helping his friend Benjamin
Liu get dressed in drag. When he’s in drag he calls himself Ming Vauze.
Then we went to the Olympic Tower for Halston’s New Year’s Eve party.
The people there said that Steve Rubell had just called and said he’d be out
of jail in two weeks.
Halston was still in the same kind of down mood, so he had mostly the
girls and boys who work for him. He told me he dressed all the girls in tulle
to make the place seem like it was full. From the window we could see the
ball in Times Square coming down, and we could see the fireworks in the
park. Marisol was there looking glum. Everybody was somebody you knew
so you had to kiss them all.
Saturday, January 3, 1981
Worked all afternoon. Went to Chris Makos’s birthday party. Peter Wise had
decided to give him a hotel room for a present, he got him one at that hotel
on Central Park South that nobody seems to go to anymore, the St. Moritz,
and so we all went there (cab $3). And Peter was sweet, he’d brought all
Chris’s toiletries and Chris loved it, he was thrilled. Jon Gould the vice-
president from Paramount arrived with an airline steward. I think the roses
that I keep sending him at work are embarrassing him, so I’d better stop. He
tries to play it macho.
Then we went over to John Reinhold’s apartment to see how the
decorating job by Michael Graves is coming, and it’s taken like nine months
for one room—they keep making the window either one inch too small or
too big so it keeps having to be redone.
Sunday, January 11, 1981
Called Vincent and woke him up. He said a lot of my paintings at the office
cracked from the cold.
I watched Giant on TV from 1:00 to 5:30. It’s so long. I even went to
church in between and when I came back it was still on. James Dean’s
acting when he gets old is the worst thing. But they did a good thing—when
he’s drunk and talking into the microphone it’s like a rock star, he’s right on
top of the microphone and it’s just noises coming out and so it’s abstract.
I had some wine and a couple of aspirin to try to get rid of the pain in
my back. I’m also trying to take two aspirin a day so I don’t become senile
because I just read that it stops the hardening of the arteries. But I don’t
know, my mother took millions of aspirin and it didn’t do any good.
Bob said the inauguration is on Saturday. I didn’t realize it was so soon.
Bob doesn’t care about discoing now, he’s just so happy with all his
Republicans—with Doria and Jerry Zipkin calling him.
Monday, January 12, 1981
The sun was shining so I decided to work up front at Ronnie’s desk. I had to
do some Joseph Beuyses. But Ronnie was careless, he’d left some paint in
the middle of the floor and I kicked it and it went all over my boot and
pants and it took the whole afternoon to clean up—that was the first time
that’d happened. And then the rock star from the Cars, Ric Ocasek, wanted
to bring his band by to see his portrait, so he did.
Tuesday, January 13, 1981
I looked for ideas on the New Myths series. Also looked for Mother Goose
pictures. But I think the best thing we decided to do is have people come
and dress up in the costumes and we’ll take the pictures ourselves, because
that way there’s no copyright to worry about.
Wednesday, January 14, 1981
I had Brigid write a thank-you note to Gloria Swanson telling her how
much I loved her book and saying that thanks to her I’m trying to get off
candy. The purpose of the new thing of writing notes is to get notes back—
the Joan Crawford thing. Oh, and Steve Aronson did one of his good, long
interviews with Gloria Swanson in Interview, and she called the office for
his number and invited him over for tea with no sugar.
And I was looking at Bob’s interview with the Borchgrave guy and Bob
does do good political interviews, he knows his facts.
Tuesday, January 20, 1981—Washington, D.C.
The driver picked us up at Ina Ginsburg’s at 10:00, his name was Carter and
he got us as close to the Capitol as he could and then we had to walk a
couple of blocks and there were big crowds of people everywhere, lots of
kids, lots of troops, marines, police. And finally we got through all the
checkpoints and found our seats in section E and I was complaining about
how far back they were, but then we saw this black Marine march up to two
white marines and salute them and they said (laughs)—well, we thought
they’d say something like, “The heads of state will be arriving soon and
security is tightly under control,” but they said, “Robert Goulet and Glen
Campbell are sitting in row sixty-four.” And then the three of them went
marching off to look for more stars. We had binoculars. I focused on
Rosalynn, she looked so sad.
Senator Pell gave Ina a seat on the president’s platform for the swearing-
in.
During the swearing-in a Marine stopped in front of each row and said
in a low voice, “The hostages have just left Tehran, in case you haven’t
heard.” And there were helicopters everywhere just patroling the sky. And
they had bulletproof glass all around the podium.
Afterwards in the Capitol building by a staircase that said “Senators
Only,” we ran into Doria and Ron, so we had all these big helios. And then
they got whisked away and we went down another hall and suddenly there
was a voice saying, “Andy! Andy!” and it was Happy Rockefeller and she
said, “Andy, why don’t you ever come and see those paintings you did of
me?” She was in a mink coat. The place was practically empty by then and
she had a Marine with a walkie-talkie next to her. We were actually the only
people in the whole building without our own marines.
Listening to the inaugural address you get fired up and I felt like being a
Republican. But then when it was over and you looked around at the faces
on all the Republicans, I was glad I’m a Democrat—there really is a
difference.
Friday, January 23, 1981—New York
I glued, had to meet Jill Fuller at Le Cirque for dinner. Le Cirque is the new
Republican restaurant, I guess, since I saw Sirio down at the inauguration.
My pictures came back, by the way, and at least I got a few good ones of
the Reagan kids. I brought Curley’s cute cousin David Laughlin for Jill
because I told her that every time we had a date I’d bring her another boy
that I thought she might like, one young and rich and beautiful.
Sharon Hammond was there and she was with a guy who lives in the
Dakota and he has a bulldog and the bulldog was having puppies and he
picked her up and was rushing her to the vet and one puppy dropped out
right on the spot where John Lennon had fallen shot and that puppy died.
Wednesday, February 4, 1981
I was sitting around the office with Victor and all of a sudden somebody
said, “Look who’s here!” It was Steve Rubell and Ian Schrager. They said
they were in the neighborhood. Victor gave them the biggest hug and said
that Halston was planning a dinner party for them on Saturday. They said it
had to start at 6:00 because they had to be back at the halfway house by
11:00. Steve looked really tan. I don’t know how he got that tan. He was
wearing a lot of clothes to hide that he’d put on weight with the prison food.
Ian looked really good.
Friday, February 6, 1981
Vincent and I had to go up to meet with the Home Box Office people. This
came about because a girl who knew Louis Waldon, our star of Lonesome
Cowboys, works there and she told Vincent that they were interested in
doing something with our cable TV show. Well, we walked in and they
started putting me down, it was just like the old days. They started saying
things like, “You’re too far out.” And they said, “Middle America doesn’t
know who you are.” I was just going to get up and walk out but then I
thought, well, you never know who you’ll meet again, and Vincent was
getting mad, too, but he was holding it in, too. Finally we got up and left.
They just wanted me there so that they could insult me. We went back to the
office.
Saturday, February 7, 1981
Bob MacBride called and said that John O’Shea had put Truman in a
hospital in Miami and did we know anybody down there to check him out
of there. John O’Shea was Truman’s roommate before Bob MacBride.
Tuesday, February 10, 1981
Got up at 9:00 and they keep predicting a big rainstorm but nothing
happened. I stayed uptown because there was a lunch at Le Cirque that Bob
was giving—actually it was a free one, from Sirio—and Averil and her
husband-to-be, the doctor, Tim Haydock, were going to be there. They’re
about to go on a pre-honeymoon to Thailand and Averil wanted to meet
Mercedes Kellogg and her husband Fran because he’s friends with the
queen of Thailand.
Because it was a free lunch I forgot to give the headwaiter a tip. I always
forget you still have to when it’s free (coats $2). The Kelloggs had just
found out this morning that he wouldn’t be getting the Chief of Protocol
appointment that he really wanted. Mrs. Annenberg got it. I think Mercedes
is the reason they didn’t get it, because she’s Iranian.
Thursday, February 12, 1981
Fred was on his way to Europe but then his mother called and said that his
father had just died so he went to Texas instead.
I invited Jon Gould to the Rangers’ hockey game but he said I should
have called earlier.
Friday, February 13, 1981
Chris Makos said to come to his place at 7:00 to talk about projects and
look at photos. He was having Jon Gould over there.
I worked until 8:00 with Rupert. He dropped me off at Chris’s. We
talked about different projects and then went to have dinner at the Coach
House restaurant. One of the waiters, it turns out, was the kid who once
brought me a drawing of mine he’d bought from somebody who got it at
auction at Parke Bernet. But when I saw it, I knew it wasn’t mine, so I
wouldn’t sign it, but I told him that if he came by maybe we could think of
something to give him instead. It’s a backwards Soup Can and I just don’t
remember doing it, although it really looks like I did it. But I don’t
remember that kind of paper. And it’s backwards so I would have had to
photograph it and then trace it, and I don’t remember doing it. I didn’t do
that many drawings and they were all in such a short time. But I mean, if I
can’t even really remember … Dinner was good ($300).
Then Jon Gould had this friend named Lady McCrady who lives on Park
Avenue who’s done about twenty children’s books and we went to her
apartment and she had a lot of friends there from like Boston schools, and it
was like being in the fifties, it was that kind of apartment—all the kids were
like ballet dancers and artists and witty, like Jonathan Roberts, the boy who
thought of the idea for The Preppie Handbook. The apartment was painted
sky. Jon knows most of these kids from some course in publishing that they
give during the summer at Radcliffe. Jon had a job at Rolling Stone before
he went to Paramount.
Saturday, February 14, 1981
Went to an opening at the Gray-Gaultney gallery and as we were leaving we
ran into Governor Carey downstairs, and he said that I should tell the mayor
to let Christo wrap Central Park in plastic, that it would give lots of Puerto
Ricans jobs.
Sunday, February 15, 1981
Brigid went home from work on Friday and when she looked around for her
cat, Billy, she couldn’t find him. So she ran to the pet store before it closed
and bought another cat! Can you believe a person would do that? For $300.
Then she brought the new cat home and she heard a meow and opened the
closet and there was Billy in a pail, so she returned the new cat.
My two nieces came over from Pittsburgh and I entertained them for a
couple of hours. They look alike. And they look like they did ten years ago,
they haven’t aged. Went to church.
Monday, February 16, 1981
Got up at 9:00, it was a holiday. Presidents’ Day—they’ve put Washington
and Lincoln together and made it on a Monday.
Fred came in. Nobody asked him about his father’s funeral.
I worked on Myths—Dracula and the Wicked Witch. I look pretty good
in drag, and I thought it would be fun for me to pose for it myself, but Fred
said to do myself in drag at a later date, not to use up the idea on this
portfolio.
How do you not get bags under your eyes? I know it’s from water
collecting, but oh, I just don’t want to get them.
Tuesday, February 17, 1981
Yesterday I was watching a game show, Blockbusters with Bill Cullen, and
it was two black guys, a warden and his cousin, against a white girl and the
category was “Letters” and the question was: “Andy Warhol is a ‘V.’ “And
(laughs) she got the answer right, she said, “Virgin.” And then Bill Cullen
said, “That’s right, at fifty-one.” She won $500 and she got it up to $12,000.
Oh, and I got a letter from Germany written in German about Bad—it
was official-looking and the only sentence I can read is so funny: “In this
film they kill a man under a Volkswagen!”
Wednesday, February 18, 1981
Doria Reagan came by so that Brigid could teach her how to type up
interviews. And then I invited her to stay for lunch. I didn’t see any Secret
Service but when Ron came over later to get her he had the five guys.
Thursday, February 19, 1981
I wanted to go pass out Interviews but it was too late. I had to meet
Christopher Gibbs from England at the office (cab $5.50). Doria Reagan
was there, typing away. And they really don’t have one Secret Service guy
with her, and she could be with baby. I mean, don’t they care about the
possible grandson?
And Brigid and I are finally going to see Mary Tyler Moore on Monday.
She’s trying to change her image so she’s a problem—she didn’t want to
wear rich Halstons for the photos, and she didn’t want to come to lunch
with the rich Basses and she didn’t want to go to rich Quo Vadis for dinner
—she wants us to meet her at John’s Pizza Parlor on Bleecker Street.
And did I remember to say that Faye Dunaway called the other day?
She’s doing Mommie Dearest, playing Joan Crawford, and she wanted to
know if I had bought Joan Crawford’s heart pin at that auction and could
she borrow it. But I hadn’t. Faye just picks up the phone herself and calls,
so she’s fun, so maybe I’ll call her up sometime. I’ll get her number from
Ara. She might be good to do a story on. I just saw Hurry Sundown on TV
and she was so beautiful.
I invited Jon Gould to see 42nd Street because he’s looking for ideas for
Paramount and I want to suggest Popism to him as a movie, so I brought a
copy. Wouldn’t it be great if he got Paramount to buy it? And then I could
work on it with him, he knows so much—all these facts and figures and
surveys—he’d really be a good person to get to know.
Cabbed to Wintergarden ($4). From the first row, you can’t see the feet
tapping (laughs), you can only see the knees. Then after the show we
walked to the Russian Tea Room to meet Chris Makos who’d been to see
Sphinx and loved it.
Monday, February 22, 1981
Jerry Hall called. She said that poor Mick has been down in Peru with the
Herzog movie and it rains all day and he has to sleep on a wet mattress and
Jason Robards was taken away with pneumonia to a hospital in New York
and now he doesn’t want to go back. And I invited her to lunch with the
Basses from Texas.
When I was on my way home I ran into Alan J. Weberman, the “King of
Garbology” who was on the corner making a phone call. I knew who he
was because he handed me a resume with all his garbage credits on it. He
said he’d just been through Roy Cohn’s garbage and Gloria Vanderbilt’s. I
think he began his career with Dylan’s. I was scared that he’d see where I
lived so I went in the other direction.
Finally got home, glued, and walked to the armory. It was Roy Cohn’s
birthday party. Black tie. The Mafioso types weren’t in black tie, though.
Steve and Ian didn’t come because they didn’t want the publicity. There
were about 200 people. Lots of heavies. Donald Trump, Carmine DeSapio,
the D’Amatos, David Mahoney, Mark Goodson, Mr. LeFrak, Gloria
Swanson, Jerry Zipkin, C.Z. Guest and Alexander, Warren Avis, Rupert
Murdoch, and John Kluge. And the reason I’m able to remember so many is
because Joey Adams gave a speech where he mentioned everyone in the
room.
I was talking to a guy and I said how terrible it was that they wanted to
tear down this beautiful armory and he said he thought it was a good idea
because he was in construction. They brought out a lot of cakes—each had
one letter that spelled out “Happy Birthday Roy Cohn.” Roy really got the
press there, the Times and the Post.
Monday, February 23, 1981
Are called and said to meet Mary Tyler Moore at John’s Pizza at 8:30
instead of 8:00 and I decided that I would just stay downtown and work
until then.
Jay Shriver dropped Brigid and me off (cab $10). The place was empty
because it was raining heavily. It’s a small place, only about 20’ X 40’. The
owner had started to drink, he was nervous because we were coming. They
didn’t serve slices, only whole pies. Brigid was still on her diet so she just
had Tabs. But the owner was offering her wine and he was showing her the
sixty kinds of pizzas and she was going nuts. The temptations were making
Brigid weak in the brain. The owner was smashed.
Mary and Ara came five minutes late and she was really sweet. The juke
box was forties Sinatra and it was so loud. The owner had pulled up a chair
and was part of the party. He’d had the New York Times review of the place
printed on the napkins.
Well, Mary Tyler Moore is trying to be a new woman. Brigid told Mary
she loved her crow’s feet, which she does, but it sounded insulting. Brigid
was trying to get the conversation around to plastic surgery but she let it
drop there, she didn’t pursue it. And then Brigid said, “There’s only one
thing I want to ask you—are you going out with Warren Beatty?” and Mary
gulped and Ara gave a funny look, and she said, “Well, ‘going out’ is just,
you know, ‘going out.’ “ So that was never answered. Mary looks like an
old Barbie doll. She’s perfect—short hair, a beautiful body, like the mother
of Barbie. She looks like Doris Day in the fifties. And she eats a lot. And
later I noticed she walks fast and never looks at anybody so nobody ever
stops her. She’s a dynamo. Then some cops came in to pick up some pizza
and they were so good-looking. I asked one of them if he wanted to meet
Mary Tyler Moore and ask a few questions. This cop was really cute, he
said he used to sing with a group called something like the Passions in the
sixties or fifties, and that they had a few hits. He asked her if she wanted to
ride on a horse outside and she said yes, that she wanted to right then, but
then he got nervous that something might happen to her, so he gave her an
honorary police card instead. They were flirting.
Mary’s studying political science and, I mean, with that voice, she could
really be the biggest thing in politics since Ronnie Reagan. She goes to a
psychiatrist two or three times a week. And then she got a craving for a hot
fudge sundae so I said Serendipity was the best really good place and she
liked the idea of that.
When we walked into Serendipity the whole place hushed—“There’s
Mary.” We sat under the lamp that was in my living room thirty-five years
ago. I ordered half a sundae and so did Mary and Ara.
And she’s so “assured of herself” it’s funny. Do you know what I mean?
It’s almost comical.
Monday, March 2, 1981—Paris
We made a lot of phone calls to see who was in town, and then we got a car
and we drove out to Chateau La Hori to this dinner that Bergitte de Ganay
was giving for Charlotte Greville and her husband Andrew Fraser. They
were there for the hunt. This is where the hunt has gone on since the days of
old. Charlotte has forty letters of introduction, she can go anywhere in the
world. But now somebody’s trying to outlaw deer hunting in France. They
actually let the dogs tear the deer apart. Or they knife them to death, or
something.
During the ride back Fred freaked out and it was just too embarrassing.
Everything was normal, and then all of a sudden he was a different person
for ten minutes, and then he was normal again. The driver got really scared,
though, and almost stopped the car (car $320). And then Fred was
complaining that nobody ever is nice to him. Actually, we both were
complaining—I felt neglected, too.
Sunday, March 8, 1981—Düsseldorf
At the cocktail party at Hans Mayer’s house last night, there were a lot of
people I’d done portraits of who I didn’t recognize, so I thought they were
potential new portraits, (laughs) Oh God, no wonder people think I’m out
of it.
We had breakfast with Joseph Beuys, he insisted I come to his house and
see his studio and the way he lives and have tea and cake, it was really nice.
He gave me a work of art which was two bottles of effervescent water
which ended up exploding in my suitcase and damaging everything I have,
so I can’t open the box now, because I don’t know if it’s a work of art
anymore or just broken bottles. So if he comes to New York I’ve got to get
him to come sign the box because it’s just a real muck.
Monday, March 9, 1981—Munich
Very sunny and very cold. Went to the gallery where they were having a
little exhibition of the glittery Shoes, and had to do interviews and pics for
the German newspaper and then we had to go back to the hotel and be
picked up by the “2,000” people—it’s a club of twenty guys who got
together and they’re going to buy 2,000 bottles of Dom Perignon which
they will put in a sealed room until the year 2,000 and then open it up and
drink it and so the running joke is who will be around and who won’t.
It was fun because all the men were really straight and it was fun being
out with them. Some of them brought their wives. And it was an eight-
course dinner with a lot of different wines during each course. The first
food was fresh liver, the goose was just killed in the kitchen and the liver
was just taken out and cut into slices and warmed up—half warmed by the
heat, and half warmed by the goose. It was delicious, but after you thought
about it you wanted to throw up. The second course was soup. Then lobster
with baby quail—you got the breast of the little quail, as big as your
fingernail. It was really good, but just so sad, like eating the chest of a
roach. Then in between courses we had some sherbet and they made it look
like Jackson Pollock because they puréed fresh kiwi and strawberries and
threw them on a plate. Artistic. Then they had lamb encrusted and it was the
best lamb I ever had encrusted.
And the different twenty men kept changing seats so they could sit next
to me because they thought they could get some good conversation, but I
was just absolutely drunk.
Thursday, March 12, 1981—New York
Vincent told me that Bill Copley’s wife, Marjorie the Czechoslovak madam
from Pittsburgh—the one I just did the portrait of—walked out on Bill and
went to Tiffany’s and ran up a big bill, cleaned out their bank account. Took
the two portraits. She always takes a private plane from Miami to Key West,
and Bill was waiting at the airport for her with a bouquet of roses, and
instead of her coming off this guy came off with a divorce summons.
Bill’s body is now covered in third-degree burns. When they were down
in Key West he was smoking in bed and she was asleep in another room and
the two whores—friends of Marjorie’s —that had flown down to Key West
with her went out and when they came home at 5:00 they found the fire. He
could have died. And she said she was asleep the whole time and didn’t
hear anything or smell anything, but the house was half burned down. The
firemen had to come. Bill’s been getting skin grafts and everything, he’s
had a few operations. It was really terrible. And he’s always alone because
she fired the assistant and the secretary.
Read my mail then went to the office (cab $5). Brigid was excited about
getting an eye lift. She sent the money in already. And Ronnie was happy
because he’s got a rich girlfriend.
Johnny Pigozzi came by and he had a new camera that went in a circle
and took a whole panorama, so I sent Ronnie out to get one just like it for
me. And he was nice, I think because he saw me painting, and he always
suspected someone else did it for me.
Cabbed at 11:30 to the Ritz ($5.50). They gave us free drink tickets, and
Walter Steding went on right at 11:30 and was really good. It’s so strange to
see somebody who works for you as a janitor have that performing ability.
Friday, March 13, 1981
Brigid was typing up the tape of the day we went to Port Jervis to see
Charles Rydell, and she said that after hearing herself she was never going
to drink again.
Ara invited me to a party for Jack Nicholson at 212 East 49th Street at
11:30. It was wall-to-wall models. I told Jack how great he was in Postman
and that everybody thinks Jessica Lange is great. I talked to a kid who
worked on the crew of Cocaine Cowboys and he told me the real story of
Tom Sullivan—how he’d been taking heroin for years, and that his mother
drove a bus in Tampa. This kid said Tom’s out of money now, that he’d
made all his money flying marijuana —not cocaine—up from Colombia.
And Winnie was at this party, she’s getting a divorce from Tom. Stayed
there till 3:00. Franco Rossellini was there. Bob Raphaelson was there, he’s
really nice. And Ara was really sweet.
Saturday, March 14, 1981
I went to the Loyola church for the 11:00 wedding of the Michael Kennedy
kid to Vicky Gifford. Fred was there (cab $4). The streets were mobbed
with TV crews and police.
Churches always make me dizzy. They had pretty flowers on all the
pews. The bridesmaids came in, and the funny thing with that was that
when Bob was in Switzerland they were making up all the bridesmaids’
gowns there and they were saying, “These are for the Kennedy wedding,
they’ve ordered all these nightgowns.” So here were all these girls in what I
knew were nightgowns that cost probably $75 each. Purple with pink ballet
shoes. Kerry Kennedy was a bridesmaid and Mary Richardson’s sister. And
then the bride came in and she was the prettiest bride I’ve ever seen in my
life. Really the best-looking bride. It made you want to get married, it really
did. I’d met her before, in Monte Carlo. She’s Frank Gifford’s daughter.
Cab to the St. Regis where the reception was on the roof ($4). It was
beautiful up there. I had to shake hands again. Robert Kennedy wanted to
trade ties with me, and then he was peculiar, he wanted to trade pants. He’s
the other good-looking one, he was going with Rebecca Fraser. Really,
these kids were all so good-looking, just a roomful of seventy-five of the
best-looking boys and seventy-five of the best-looking girls, and then about
twenty older people. Caroline Kennedy wouldn’t talk to me, she was giving
me the cold shoulder, I don’t know why. But John-John was nice, he said hi
and everything.
I went quickly through the receiving line. Senator Kennedy was so
sweet to me and thanked me again for doing the posters for him. He and
Joan were together at this thing.
I was invited to Stephen Graham’s and then Franco Rossellini called and
invited me to dinner at Le Cirque and we knew that President Reagan was
having dinner there, too.
Walked over there and we got the worst seats, we couldn’t see anything,
so Franco took the best seats and he started describing to us every little
thing the presidential party was doing. All of the tables had reporters having
dinner to cover the president. The whole place was foreigners, Bob and I
were about the only Americans.
Then we were leaving and didn’t want to go by the president’s table
because it was too groupieish—everybody else was stopping at the table—
so we went the other way, but then they called us over, Jerry Zipkin was
yelling, and I met Mrs. Reagan, and she said, “Oh you’re so good to my
kids.”
Then went to go to Stephen Graham’s, to the Sovereign. A boy asked me
to go home with him and I didn’t know what to do because nobody had ever
asked me that. I mean, in those words (cab $5). Bed. Then Chris Makos
called. I knew he was calling from the Baths, and then he admitted it.
Sunday, March 15, 1981
It was a really pretty day. Chris invited me to brunch with him and Jon
Gould but I thought the magic would be gone if I saw Jon in the day. But
then I decided to invite them up to my house instead. So then I was too
nervous to go down to the office—I stayed home and cleaned. Oh, and Jon
told me the other night that he liked Popism, but to Chris he said he didn’t
think Paramount could do it. But maybe eventually something will happen
with it. Maybe it’s too soon. Oh, and Jon said to me that he thought it was
“badly edited” so I don’t know if he’s good at reading.
I got cake and tea together. Jon brought his dirty laundry to wash while
they visited because at first Jon said he couldn’t come over, that he had to
do his laundry in a laundromat on Columbus Avenue and I told him I had a
nice clean machine at my house. I want him to feel at home here.
Janet Villella called and said she was sending a car to the ballet.
We arrived at the Met. It was star-studded. It was a benefit for the
Joffrey and the ballet was absolutely boring. It was just intricate sexy
dances. Got drinks at intermission ($20). Ron Reagan, Jr. was in the first
part, but he didn’t have much to do—he was the last boy in the last row
with the last girl—but he dances a lot better, he’s improved so much. And
then in the second part he was sitting in the presidential box with his mother
and father, and he and Doria were waving. They’re going away again this
month, so I don’t know how Doria’s going to get her Interview work done.
Monday, March 16, 1981
Mrs. Mahoney, who’s the wife of the head of Norton Simon that bought
Halston, slipped and told me that Halston was in the hospital and then said
oops, and please not to tell, so I ran and called Bianca and she called
Halston’s and Mohammed lied and said that Halston was asleep and that
Victor would call her later. I called the hospitals and they didn’t have a
Frowick or anything there. I wonder what’s wrong with him.
It was rainy in the morning and not cold, but by the end of the day it was
below zero. Mrs. de Menil and Mrs. Pompidou came down to the office,
there were about six security people ahead of her and six people with her.
She’s tall and beautiful. And Mrs. Malraux was with them. I don’t know if
she was the widow or a daughter-in-law or what. I gave everybody
Philosophy books. And Mrs. de Menil is so skinny. She’s building a
museum in Houston, but she said to keep it a secret. Madame Pompidou
only stayed ten minutes and then she went off—I didn’t find out till later in
the day that where she went off to was to see Nixon. And she said, “I saw
your white hair from the Reagan box last night.” She’s part of the inner
circle.
I waited at the office until it was time to go to Mrs. de Menil’s (cab $4).
Then Arman and his wife Corice were giving a dinner party afterwards for
Madame Pompidou.
Wednesday, March 18, 1981
Tinkerbelle called to thank me for recommending her to the video people at
That’s Entertainment, they’re looking for a different Rona-type. She said
she was going to have her agent call them.
I had a lunch date with Raquel Welch. She’d cancelled a few weeks ago
and this was a rescheduling. She was bringing her husband this time. When
we were originally having the lunch she requested that absolutely nobody
else be there, but this time we already had about twenty people coming.
It was a strange lunch. Raquel and her husband only wanted to talk
intellectually, so I gave them the works of PH and me—the Philosophy
book and Popism.
And Raquel just sort of sat on the couch while everybody pretended not
to look at her. She was interested in art so we gave them the tour. Susan
Blond asked her if she’d like to go to the New Wave clubs and she said,
“No, I’m trying to get the Old Wave back, because the Old Wave represents
quality, not these young kids running around doing things.” I mean, can you
believe it? She said she gave a lecture at UCLA.
Bob was frazzled because he said that when you give a lunch that big
you don’t really accomplish anything, that nobody knows why they’re
there, whereas if you have it a small lunch, they know they’re there to be
talked into buying ads. Mary Boone didn’t know why she was there, he
said.
Anna Wintour who used to work on Viva who got Catherine her job
there came up to show Bob an idea for an Interview fashion insert that she’d
worked on for three months because she thought it was a good idea, and he
just looked at if for one second and said it was trash and she started crying.
And she’s such a tough cookie that I could never even imagine her crying,
but I guess it was her femininity coming out.
Later we had to go to Bolero, the new club which advertises, so we went
and it was so strange. It’s like a brownstone and you go in and they put you
in an elevator, and the doors close and it shakes you around and the lights
go, and then the doors open and you’re really on the same floor, on the
other side! I guess they really wanted you to think you’d gone someplace.
It’s like a fake townhouse—paneled walls and a couple of candelabra.
And the ladies there said, “This area is sealed tight, and I think you
know what that means— that means you can do anything in here, anything
you want.” It’s such a camp.
Thursday, March 19, 1981
I had to decide whether or not to ask Chris Makos to come to Europe with
us and help me photograph buildings, and I decided I would.
Friday, March 20, 1981
We had to do our Rex Smith interview, Bob and I, so I decided it was easier
to stay uptown because it was going to be at Quo Vadis. We fell in love with
him. He had the curly Vitas Gerulaitis look but better-looking.
And then we heard a voice say, “Andy!” and it was Yoko Ono. We were
so stunned. She looked so elegant, like the Duchess of Windsor with her
hair back and dark wraparound glasses, and beautiful makeup and Fendi
furs and jewelry—an emerald ring with a big ruby in it and Elsa Peretti
diamond earrings. So I said that I wanted to call her for lunch and so she
gave me her phone number. It was really strange, a whole new Yoko.
Monday, March 23, 1981
The story about Halston that Victor sort of just whispers in sentences that
don’t go together is that he’s still in the hospital—something like that his
ceiling is mirrored, and the mirror fell on the bed and cut him, and then the
silver from the back of the mirror got into the wound and infected it, but I
don’t know if Victor is fantasizing, being creative.
Chris Makos came at 3:00. We were photographing a madonna named
Jackie, with a baby, such a cute little girl, a really pretty baby. The madonna
was like a beautiful version of Viva, more like her sisters.
Tuesday, March 24, 1981
As Vincent and I were paying bills around 5:30 we heard a couple of bangs
but it just sounded like firecrackers but then we looked out at Union Square
and there was a dead person on the street, it seemed like the police had shot
the person, and then the TV crews were there and the lights were so bright
that we could see the red blood around the corpse from the window.
Wednesday, March 25, 1981
Brigid weighs less now, you can feel her bones. Today or tomorrow she’s
having her eyes done.
Vincent was looking in the paper to get the story on the murdered person
in Union Square, and he finally found it in the Post but there must have
been a lot of drugs in the car or something, for the policeman to have fired
five times.
I got dressed really quick to go to the Walter Hoving dinner for John
Kluge at 635 Park. Ran over there and Hoveyda was going in at the same
time and it was so great to see him, I asked him to be my date. I told him
I’ve been meaning to call. Jane Pickens Hoving greeted us and it was a
heavy bunch—the Trumps, the Bronfmans. And John Kluge and Patricia
Gay are getting married in May.
Everybody at the party was so old, but I liked it. And everybody was so
straight and married and I was the only fairy there. I also talked to a
beautiful girl from California who’s dating Andrew Stein who was there
talking to somebody about budgets and he’s good-looking and nice and
smart. And then everybody was supposed to do some entertainment. Jane
Pickens and her sisters were singers, they had a really big career. And they
asked me to perform and I said that I just couldn’t, but I took a picture and
then I bowed, and they thought I was crazy. Patricia Gay is a raving beauty,
6’ tall.
Thursday, March 26, 1981
Joan Lunden called in the morning and said she was expecting me for lunch
at Le Cirque with her and Barbi Benton. Barbi was in town to do Joan’s
show the next day. But I knew Jed would be there, so I said I couldn’t. Joan
was Jed’s girlfriend in high school in Sacramento and Barbi was his brother
Jay’s.
David Hockney came to lunch and Vincent did a video of him. And
afterwards he went into the other room and did the interview. David’s cute,
he really is magic.
Julie Sylvester from the Dia Foundation who works for Heiner came by,
and she said that Philippa is now trying to help poor people, she’s giving
them money, and I hope that doesn’t cut into what she does for art, because
she’s really generous.
Barbi Benton called and invited me to Pirates of Penzance and I told her
I had other plans, which I did, but she said, “You’re turning down a Playboy
Bunny? Nobody’s ever turned me down! You’re the one who wears the
pants—you can do anything you want to do. Just break your plans.” So I
said okay, that I would. I mean, she was so aggressive—henpecking me—
that I had to. I said I’d pick her up at 7:30 at the St. Moritz, and I asked if a
taxi was okay and she said yes.
Got a cab fast. I discovered that I didn’t have my small bills with me,
just a hundred, so I had to borrow $20 from Barbi. She was seeing the play
because she’s determined to get the Linda Ronstadt part on the West Coast.
She said that (laughs) Sonny Bono is going to play the Kevin Kline part.
After the show Barbi said that Joe Papp had cleared it for her to see
Linda Ronstadt so we went to see her and it was such a camp, listening to
these two talk. Linda wants to go into another play that’s opening in the fall,
and Barbi told her, “This has led your career into new and wider scopes.
Now you’re competing with Barbra Streisand.” And they talked about how
painfully shy each of them was. Rex Smith was there in his tight pants with
his big cock, and he looked at Barbi and said, “This is my new adventure,”
because when we did the interview with him he’d said that he was looking
for a “new adventure.”
I invited Rex to dinner with us at Pearl’s and he glued and rolled up a
joint and turned down some phone calls and some other dates. Barbi looked
so good, too, she looks really good. So we went over to Pearl’s and didn’t
get there till 11:00, they’d already closed the kitchen but they waited for us
anyway.
Rex was heavily going after Barbi and I asked him about his ex-
marriage and he said it was to an older woman, that he liked older women,
and he asked Barbi how old she was and she said thirty-one, and it was
going happily until it came to “Are you married?” and she said yes, and
then Rex was a deflated balloon and the dinner was sort of over.
I left Rex walking on the street, sort of turning around but then—I don’t
know—maybe they had made a date, because he was walking toward the
St. Moritz, but I don’t know. Barbi had to get up at like 5:30 to be on Joan
Lunden’s Good Morning America show.
Friday, March 27, 1981
We had another madonna and child scheduled for 3:00 and I just know this
series is going to be a problem. It’s just too strange a thing, mothers and
babies and breastfeeding.
Saturday, March 28, 1981
I got to Halston’s at 9:45. Steve Rubell was there and Ian. Halston’s fifteen
pounds lighter and he was drinking ginger ale. He told me the real story of
what happened. He said that he and Martha Graham both shot up B-12,
which I knew, but that a syringe he’d been sent was contaminated with lead,
and his leg began hurting, and he went to the doctor, and the doctor said he
should rush to the hospital but Halston said no, he’d just go home, but then
the other leg started hurting and he could hardly walk, and then they rushed
him to the hospital, they thought he might lose the leg, and they operated. I
think this is all true, because Halston doesn’t make up stories, he really
doesn’t. He was happy that it didn’t get in the papers.
Then we left there and Steve didn’t tell Halston but (laughs) he was then
going on to Calvin Klein’s. Steve dropped me and I went to John Samuels’s
father’s party at 123 East 79th Street. John Samuels, Sr.’s boyfriend, David,
played the piano and he said that he practices five hours a day. Mr. Samuels
met him when he hired him to be his piano teacher. They had nice flowers
there and David told me, “Pluck a gardenia on your way out or I’ll never
speak to you again.”
Sunday, March 29, 1981
There was a Greek parade going on and I don’t know why it should be so
big, unless—oh that must be it, Governor Carey has that new Greek
girlfriend.
And oh, there was an article on Lou Reed in People. With his “British-
born” wife. I still don’t understand why I wasn’t invited to the wedding.
They had a big reception and everything.
Monday, March 30, 1981
It was warm and rainy. I stayed uptown because Bob and I were
interviewing Dominique Sanda at Quo Vadis at 1:00. They thought we’d
said a table for twelve so we had a lot of room. Bob and I fell madly in
love, she was so wonderful, so magic. Bob and I were wide-eyed. And
when Bob’s a pushover, you know it’s love. She giggles. And she speaks
perfect English, except with a little British accent. She said that she just
decided one day that she hated her last name and named herself Sanda, I
think her name has a lot to do with the mystique. Then afterward she
wanted to walk in the rain, so we gave her an Interview for a rain hat and
she went off walking.
Sharon Hammond was having a birthday party. Went over there and it
was really festive. I guess everybody had been so nerved up by Reagan
being assassinated but he’s going to make it, they were relieved. Sharon’s
lord was there. I heard Lester Persky talking to some other producer about
Popism and he said he wanted to “buy it,” but since it was Lester talking I
didn’t know if he meant the film rights or just a copy of the book.
Wednesday, April 1, 1981—New York—Paris
We dropped off Chris Makos at the Hotel Lenox at 9 Rue de l’Universite,
and then us (cab $50). Rocksavage was having sort of a little dinner party.
Thursday, April 2, 1981—Paris
Helmut Newton came over at 12:00 to do one of his fashion shootings, and
they brought in these big bouquets of pretty flowers which they eventually
let us keep, and Helmut finally came and let me take pictures of him and his
pretty model.
Late that night Christopher encouraged me to call Jon Gould in
California so I did, it was 5:00 there, and I was pretending to be sober, so I
had this great sober voice, which I don’t know how I did it, and the
secretary said that he was in a meeting, and he’d be out in fifteen minutes,
and he’d be sure to call me, and then she asked if it was all right to call me
“Andy” because I was her god and she was so familiar that I just knew
something was wrong, I knew he would never call back. But I sat around
waiting for the call and I must have dozed off, but I’m sure the phone never
rang. And then Fred arrived and he brought a whole gang with him, and it
sounded like they were rowdy Frenchmen, they had these horrible voices
and I didn’t know who they were and they just went on and on and on, and
Fred played “Diamonds Are a Girl’s Best Friend” at top volume and I
thought I would freak out. I was feeling so desperate because my phone call
never came through that I almost wanted to kill myself. That’s the way life
goes, kiddo. Fred’s friends didn’t leave until 4:00 in the morning. I looked
out the window when I heard them going and they didn’t look so great to
me, but Fred said that they were rich kids.
Friday, April 3, 1981—Paris
Woke up at 12:00 because we were having our lunch with Sao
Schlumberger at Maxim’s (cab $12). And Sao was sitting there alone, she
was afraid that we’d forgotten about her. She gave us wonderful ties from
India. She’d just been there with Patrice Calmette. She talked about how
she’d been “too open” with her last friend, Naguib, so everyone said there
was—that she should, uh—that the best way is—well, I guess I can’t
remember because nobody knew what the best way is.
Then after lunch we decided to go see the Gainsborough show, a lot of
beautiful people and their dogs. And then we were so close to Givenchy that
we all decided to go to Givenchy and Hubert came down in a white smock
and showed us around and we had the best time.
Saturday, April 4, 1981—Paris
I took a Valium and almost took a nap but then there were lots of phone
calls and we invited people over for drinks—like a guy named Yorgan, I
think, brought two funny people from England—Vivienne Westwood who
designs clothes, and Malcolm McLaren who managed the Sex Pistols.
After going to dinner and then Club 78 at 78 Rue something and the
Privilege, we got home at 4:00 in the morning and I called Jon Gould at
Paramount Pictures in L.A. when I was drunk and I think I said a lot of
wrong things.
Monday, April 6, 1981—Paris
Saw the Christian Dior show and the Valentino show. With the male
models, all the really straight-looking models are gay, and all the really gay-
looking models are straight. And Christopher and I decided that we should
start telling people that despite how we look and talk, that we’re not gay.
Because then they don’t know what to do with you.
Wednesday, April 8, 1981—Vienna
I got up early. I’d dreamt about Billy Name [see Introduction], that he was
living under the stairs at my house and doing somersaults, and everything
was very colorful. It was so weird, because his friends sort of invaded my
house and were acting crazy in colorful costumes and jumping up and down
and having so much fun and they took over, they took over my life. It was
so weird. It was like clowns. Everybody was a clown in a funny way, and
they were just living there without letting me know, they’d come out in the
morning when I wasn’t there and they’d have a lot of fun and then they’d
go back and live in the closet. And so I got up and Christopher had left all
the lights on, and the windows were open and it was very beautiful.
Went to hunt for the loden coat I was trying to buy for Jon Gould. And
Bruno Bischofberger said the best loden coats were in Zurich and Fred said
the best were in Paris. But I think the best ones are in Vienna.
Then we had to meet a kid named Andre Heller who has gold records
and he owns all these paintings and wants me to do a drawing for his album
cover. He was taking us down underground to show us dead people who’re
petrified and they’re all in their eighteenth-century clothes. Fred said it
might be a good idea to go, that maybe we’d get ideas there.
So we met him and he gave us about twenty boxes of candy. Then we
went down into the catacombs and we had to oooh and ahh at all the dead
bodies, and it was really cold down there and he’d made us leave our candy
behind and we didn’t want to do that but we did, and this place was just
hateful. I hated it a lot. Fred loved it.
Then Bruno took us back to the hotel. Fred wanted to go for another
walk, but Christopher wanted to go cruising in the park, so we just threw
our stuff down and walked the whole park and that was good exercise.
Thursday, April 9, 1981—Vienna
Bruno came by because we had a really punctual meeting at 10:30 at the
ministry with the lady Minister of Culture in Vienna. We met the curator of
my Reversals show at the Vienna Museum of Twentieth-Century Art, I
forget his name, and we saw the beautiful catalogues that they printed for
the Reversal show which are really long and slim. Then we went to the
hotel and freshened up before the show at 6:00. I talked to Vincent in New
York and he said my headsheet had come in from Zoli. Have I told the
Diary I’ve decided to become a male model? So then Fred got so
overwrought—he thinks I’m crazy to start modeling. But it’s something I
want to do so I ignored him. Chris said Fred’s just jealous.
So we got to the museum and it was an unbelievable crush, open to the
public, and I’d never been in Vienna before so this was “See Andy now or
you’ll never see him again.” And that lasted for two hours, and I had to sign
shoes and asses, and I didn’t even look up once.
Then finally Christopher couldn’t stand it anymore and said that we had
to leave, so we ran out past all the TV people and jumped into the car and it
took us to a Viennese restaurant where we had hot dogs. Then to a great
club called Chaca—all young, good-looking kids. Tangos and old Elvis
songs and it was just the greatest.
Chris and I took this adorable boy, Martin, back to the hotel. We got him
to take his shirt off and then we got him to take his pants off, too, and he
had the craziest sort of Op Art underwear on and we took pictures and he
did the best poses and then we gave him the car to go home in. One thing
I’ve learned from Chris is that if you tell anybody to do anything, they just
do it. Especially models and actors. And then I saw a Telex from Jon Gould,
he’s back in New York, and it was a really nice note and then I felt great.
Monday, April 13, 1981— Paris—New York
I’d packed till 2:30 in the morning and then took a Valium and had a really
good sound sleep. Then Fred was knocking at my door and Chris Makos
called and he was rarin’ to go. Chris is just the perfect companion for me.
He’s everything I’ve ever wanted. He’s pushy but then he’s not pushy. And
he’s a child. And he goes off to sex parties and comes back satisfied with
his pipes cleaned, and he’s so in love with his lover, Peter, he’s really
considerate, and when he goes places he can’t wait to leave—just like me—
and he gets me to go running all over and even though he’s now got me
carrying his knapsack, I don’t mind because it’s all exciting and he makes
me feel young. I’ve offered Chris a reward—this wristwatch he wants—if
he can get Jon Gould to fall for me. It’s confusing because Jon tries to keep
a straight image, he tells me he’s not gay, that he can’t … but I mean …
Took the Concorde, got home at 9 A.M. on the dot. I called Jon Gould
and he said he couldn’t talk, his tub was overflowing.
Cabbed ($4) downtown. Talked to Marc Balet, he was at the office, he
designed the Zoli agency book that I’m in—the catalogue of their models. I
already got some job offers, I’m officially a male model now.
Doria Reagan came to work. And then I looked out the window and I
saw Ron walking along the street alone and he was wearing bright red, and
I mean, if I could pick him out from the window … And Doria knew where
everything was, she said, “There’s three Secret Service in the front and four
in the back.” They walked up the stairs because the elevator was broken.
And then I wanted to see Barbara Stanwyck that night at Lincoln Center,
she was getting the Film Society annual award, and so I called Sue Salter
the publicist and she was just rotten. She said, “Oh my dear, they’re all sold
out,” and I told her, you know, “We’ve really done so much for you,” and
she said she would try to find one ticket, but that I would have to pay, and
that she could get me two tickets but that they would cost $250, so I said,
“That’ll be just fine.” At least now they can’t ask me for any more favors.
Maybe the best thing to do is always pay, and then they can’t ask you for a
thing. But last year they gave me free tickets.
Jon Gould asked me to pick him up so Chris Makos and I did. We
walked over to Alice Tully Hall and there were a lot of empty seats so I was
really hating Sue Salter down to my toes. But at least the seats were good,
row J. And the Barbara Stanwyck clips were great, although at the end it got
boring because they used the same ones too much. At 11:30 Chris dropped
me off.
Tuesday, April 14, 1981
Worked till 5:30. Jon Gould invited me to a screening of Atlantic City that
he was giving for his crowd. Cabbed to Paramount ($7). Lady McCrady and
Jonathan Roberts were there, and Katy Dobbs who was also in that
Radcliffe publishing course that all those kids took.
And I ran into a guy who’d seen my picture in the Zoli book and offered
me a job. Fred is still furious, he said I should be getting thousands for
endorsing products, not working for modeling fees. But I think it’s funny to
be just another pretty face in the Zoli book. I told him to lighten up.
Wednesday, April 15, 1981
Had a sleepless night. Watched the astronauts coming back on the shuttle on
the Today Show. They’re really cute. Did you ever notice how old they look
after the space flights? They send up these good-looking guys and get back
these tired-looking people.
Went up to Carl Fischer’s for my first Sony commercial. They were
already waiting, setting up. And they were talking about the other artists
they’d like to get for the series, they mentioned Duchamp and Picasso.
Seriously. I honestly don’t think they knew they were dead. Maurice
Sendak was the only other live one they mentioned besides me. And Peter
Max.
And they had some food in another room but they didn’t offer me any,
the execs were coming in eating cheese and saying things like, “This is a
good spread,” things that sound just like the commercials. And people really
do talk that way, they really are like ad people.
Everyone was telling me how wonnnnnnderful I looked thin, but I feel
so weak.
Went to Xenon and that was fun. I met the Moynihan girl, Maura, and
her roommate Aysie, Senator Warner’s daughter—her mother’s a Mellon.
And then my hair started to look too fake in the blue light so (laughs) I
knew it was time to leave.
Thursday, April 16, 1981
Got up early and it looked beautiful out, but I’m in this period where I
think, What is it all about? You do this and what does it mean, and you do
that and what does it mean?
Really I’m in a strange period, I put off telling the Diary about my
emotional problems because last Christmas when I was having all the fights
with Jed and he moved out, I couldn’t face talking about it, and now I’m
living alone and in a way I’m relieved, but then I don’t want to be by
myself in this big house with just Nena and Aurora and Archie and Amos.
I’ve got these desperate feelings that nothing means anything. And then I
decide that I should try to fall in love, and that’s what I’m doing now with
Jon Gould, but then it’s just too hard. I mean, you think about a person
constantly and it’s just a fantasy, it’s not real, and then it gets so involved,
you have to see them all the time and then it winds up that it’s just a job like
everything else, so I don’t know. But Jon is a good person to be in love with
because he has his own career, and I can develop movie ideas with him, you
know? And maybe he can even convince Paramount to advertise in
Interview, too. Right? So my crush on him will be good for business.
Oh, and the most interesting thing was seeing Lou Reed on the street in
the Village with his wife. She’s nothing special, just a little sexy girl. I told
him that I’d just been reading about him in People and I asked him why he
doesn’t come over and see us, and he said it’s because he doesn’t know any
of the people anymore, and then he asked if Ronnie was still around, and I
said yes, and then if Vincent was still around, and I said yes, and if PH was
still around, and I said yes, so it was funny. Went home.
I cooked an early Easter dinner and it smelled like the old days when PH
used to come up and cook me cabbage with caraway seeds and onions. Jon
was a little late because he had to go to Macy’s to return some sheets. He
brought me an Easter basket, it was kind of plain. I gave him a tour of the
whole house to impress him, and I was hinting like crazy that it could all be
his, that there was a room with his name on it.
Then we went to see Excalibur. The sex scenes were a little corny but
beautifully done. He had his armor on when they were having sex. And then
the focus was so soft. And I was so confused, I always thought Camelot was
a real place. So after the movie we walked back home. I’d given Jon a
rabbit puppet and he was waving at people with it. He’s going to his
family’s house in Massachusetts for Easter.
Friday, April 17, 1981
I was depressed, I decided to pass out Interviews. After I did that I went to
the office and I ran into the Moynihan girl, Maura, who was arriving two
days late for lunch (cab $5). And now that the Soho News had Dominique
Sanda on its cover this week, it’d be too tacky to have her as our cover girl,
so maybe we’ll use this Moynihan girl as our cover because she’s cute and
smart—she went to Harvard—and she has a rock band.
Chris Makos called me from Palm Beach where it was so sunny and he
was with his boyfriend Peter and that depressed me, they’d just gotten
there.
Worked till 6:30. Rupert invited me to an all-boy party on Bleecker
Street, but I was too depressed. Ate at the Brasserie ($40). Went home
lonely and despondent because nobody loves me and it’s Easter, and I cried.
Saturday, April 18, 1981
Chris Makos had called me at 9:00 from Florida and he was so happy, so he
depressed me again. I’m up to ten pushups but my situps are really bad. I
moped around, my mind was somewhere else. Started work at 12:30 and
worked till 7:00. Rupert got thirty calls and I didn’t get one.
Picked up John Reinhold and we went to meet Tom Baker at the
Playhouse on West 48th Street to see Sylvia Miles’s one-woman show (cab
$5, tickets $45). The sets were done well, it was a reproduction of her
apartment, it had my Marilyn and the play mentioned me a few times. Then
afterwards we went backstage and Sylvia had telegrams up and flowers and
posters and that’s just the kind of thing she loves, and I was so embarrassed
I hadn’t done anything like that for her, I’ll have to send her champagne.
Then we dropped John Reinhold at home because he felt guilty because it
was Passover. Tom and I talked about Jim Morrison and Tom said they’d
pick up three girls and then Jim would pass out and he’d have to fuck them
all. Stayed till 4:00. Cab dropped Tom ($5).
Sunday, April 19, 1981
Easter. I was in a really depressed mood. It was Sunday so Jed had come
and taken the dogs for the day. I cried three times. I decided to pull myself
together and go to church.
Monday, April 20, 1981
The weather was slightly coolish so I had on a jacket and my backpack.
Vincent talked to our landlord at 860 and he said the fifth floor that’s vacant
rents for $7,500 a month! We pay about $2,300 for our floor, so I mean, I
really should buy a building. We need more room for Interview and rents
are ridiculous. And when our lease is up, ours’ll really go up, too.
Janet Villella called and said she’d pick me up in her limo to go to the
ABT opening at Lincoln Center.
Suzie Frankfurt called and said that they foreclosed on John Samuels’s
father’s 79th Street house. It was sold on the courthouse steps to the
Brazilians.
Tried to find my black tie. Janet picked me up at 7:00.
The most jolting thing that happened at the ballet was this woman came
over and said, “Hi, do you know who I am?” and I said no, and she said,
“Lila Davies.” I went to school with her at Carnegie Tech, and she was one
of the people who we all lived together with on 103rd Street in the fifties.
She had her eighteen-year-old son with her. They live in Cleveland. And
then I felt old, because her son looked like she did when I knew her. I felt
old and grey and tired and out of it. And I invited her to lunch at the office.
And now I’ve been thinking that all my problems are because I’m feeling
old. And I’m seeing all these young kids just budding. So I’ve pinpointed
the problem.
Godunov sprained his back so he was out, and Gelsey Kirkland was
really good. Then Misha did “Push Comes to Shove” and everybody loved
that because he’s a star. Afterward they were having a free dinner across the
way. Sondra and Chris Gilman were there. Anna Sosenko who wrote songs
for Hildegarde was there. She’s in the autograph business now and when I
told her how many Interviews I signed a day she said to stop immediately,
that my signature will be worthless.
Tuesday, April 21, 1981
They just found another body in the Atlanta killings, the twenty-fifth, I
think. And I was thinking about it: If I had a little kid and she was
murdered, I would go out and kill the person myself, even if I landed in jail.
I would do that. I’m sure of it. It’s just incredible that they don’t have any
clues at all in twenty-five murders.
Brigid had invited Rod McKuen to lunch, he used to sleep on her sofa
when he was broke. He just moved to town and he called her up. She went
to Balducci’s and was really putting on the dog. So we sat there and had
lunch and gee, I tried to figure out what was fascinating about him, why
he’s so big, and I just couldn’t.
And John Wallowitch called. I raved to him about seeing him playing
the piano on cable TV, and I told him to come to the office. He was calling
to tell me that his brother Eddie, my first boyfriend about twenty-five years
ago—that he just went down to Florida to visit Eddie and found him bloated
and dead in his house. He’d been drinking, gone off A.A. and had a fit. He
always got depressed and I never knew why because he was good-looking
and he was a photographer. John didn’t want to look at the body, so a friend
came over and identified it.
I went to Ashton Hawkins’s dinner at 17 East 89th Street, my old
neighborhood, so it made me feel funny. The real howdy-doody heavy
duties were there—Brooke Astor, Laurance Rockefeller, Alice Arlen. And
Mike Nichols’s hair, I don’t think it’s fake, it looks so great, so really great.
Ashton had a rent-a-maid, one of those old Irish types like from Schrafft’s,
the cute Irish ladies with the dykey Vassar haircuts in black uniforms and
white collars. Brooke Astor said she was trying to save the South Bronx—
the old people and the poor people. Mary McFadden was there with her
escort, Stephen Paley, and I made believe Bob hadn’t told me anything
about her divorce, about the guy stealing all her stuff. I said, “You look
pretty,” and she said, “I’m desperate.” I told her to just go out and buy
herself a new Yves St. Laurent dress and she started to hit me and she’s
strong.
Then I asked her if she wanted to arm wrestle and we did and then she
started to like me and that got strange. I felt bad because I think I hurt her
hand.
Went home. I called Jon Gould at the Beverly Wilshire. Then I went to
bed and had the most un-sleepful night. Woke up at 3:00 and had a big glass
of brandy and a Valium.
Wednesday, April 22, 1981
Didn’t sleep well, I’ll have to stop drinking so much coffee and just eat
more healthy food and cut out liquor, too. I did my exercises in a hurry and
I’m up to ten pushups and then eight and eight situps.
Lila Davies called and cancelled coming to lunch because she had
tickets to Amadeus.
Friday, April 24, 1981
Passed out Interviews this morning. Had to meet Donald Trump at the office
(cab $5.50). Marc Balet had set up this meeting. I keep forgetting that Marc
gave up architecture to become an art director, but he still builds models at
home, he told me. He’s designing a catalogue for all the stores in the atrium
at the Trump Tower and he told Donald Trump that I should do a portrait of
the building that would hang over the entrance to the residential part. So
they came down to talk about that. Donald Trump is really good-looking. A
girl named Evans was with him and another lady. It was so strange, these
people are so rich. They talked about buying a building yesterday for $500
million or something. They raved about the Balducci’s lunch, but they just
picked at it. I guess because they go around to so many things where there’s
food. And they didn’t have drinks, they all just had Tabs. He’s a butch guy.
Nothing was settled, but I’m going to do some paintings, anyway, and show
them to them.
Sunday, April 26, 1981
It was such a pretty day. Jon Gould walked me all the way downtown to the
office, then he went to the gym and I went to work. I did some Madonnas.
Then I went to church for a minute. Chris Makos called and I said I was just
too exhausted to make reservations anywhere for dinner, so he did, at Da
Silvano. Jon called and he said he was free, so I picked him up at work, and
cabbed down to Da Silvano ($8). It’s just expensive Italian food that they
try to do well (dinner $140). And Catherine Guinness’s friend Anna
Wintour was there with Michael Stone, and I couldn’t remember her name
at first, but then I did. She was just hired by New York magazine to be their
fashion editor. She wanted to work for Interview but we didn’t hire her.
Maybe we should have, we do need a fashion person, but—I don’t think she
knows how to dress, she’s actually a terrible dresser.
Jon dropped me off and I got home and crawled into bed and fell asleep.
Wednesday, April 29, 1981
Brigid said “Jon Gould of Paramount Pictures” had called the office four
times and she was snide about it, but I told her we were working on a script
together. When I called him back he was at lunch.
And Christopher brought up two barbells and I could hardly lift them.
I’m up to two sets of ten pushups and one set of ten situps. Jon called back
and said his rented car was towed from 75th and Columbus and that it was
my fault because I’d told him it wouldn’t be. He thought it was stolen, but
then the police called Hertz.
Donna, one of the girls in Can Can, called and invited me to the show
on Saturday, and I called Tom Cashin to find out if Jed was going, because
if he was I didn’t want to go. Donna’s the girl from Best Little Whorehouse
who Tom was seeing during the show. She understudies the other girl, and
on Thursdays she does a real role.
Faye from Halston’s called and wanted to know if I wanted to be his
date for the opening of Little Foxes on May 7, but that’s Jon’s birthday. So I
asked Faye if I could have an extra ticket because it would solve a birthday
problem. Faye didn’t sound too happy, I think Halston really wanted to go
with just me.
Thursday, April 30, 1981
Went to 667 Madison to Janet Sartin’s for a facial. I got shoved in a room
and a fat lady made me take off all my clothes. So then Janet came in and
said, “This young lady will do you,” and this young lady was about sixty-
five. She put a hot towel on me and it was like heaven. Janet looks good—
her face is pretty—but she has a lot of crow’s feet. And I think it’s because
she believes in astringent—I’m sure that dries it out. She told me she does
Bianca and I said, “Bianca has the greatest skin,” and she said, “That’s my
skin!”
Nena and Aurora’s brother, Agosto, came down to the office, the one
who’s small and adorable who was a Marine. Vincent talked to him about a
job.
Went home then picked up Jon (cab $4, tickets $60) and went to the
Minskoff.
At Can Can we had good seats, in the same row as Ethel Merman. I told
Ethel I wanted to see her back up there. And then we ran into Donald
Trump and the dollar-a-year man for the city who has the building
company, Walsh, and their wives. And it was so much fun to see Donald
Trump again so soon in a different place. And I chit-chatted with the
Czechoslovakian wife, and Jon Gould chit-chatted with Trump. I love going
out with Jon because it’s like being on a real date—he’s tall and strong and I
feel that he can take care of me. And it’s exciting because he acts straight so
I’m sure people think he is.
When I got home there was a note from Jenette Kahn to call her when I
got in, no matter what time, so I did, and she said Sharon Hammond was
getting married to her lord the next day at 5:00 and I was invited to the
reception from 6:00 to 12:00.
Monday, May 4, 1981
I had a death threat, I’ll get to it.
I ran over to Janet Sartin’s for my appointment. Then she came in and
said, “Oh darling, your office called about ten minutes ago, Vincent and
Robyn, and they said it’s very important.” So I called them back and they
said that that kid Joey Sutton had called forty times. And he’d sent me a
note last week—Vincent didn’t open it, I did—that said: “Beware of May 5,
it’s Live or Die.” He’s been hallucinating a theory that I stole Mick Jagger’s
song “Miss You” from him and gave it to Mick Jagger to record. I don’t
know what he’s talking about … I don’t even know if this kid really writes
songs. He’s … disturbed.
So after Janet Sartin I went to Sporting World to buy a hat to disguise
myself. I got a camouflage hunter’s hat ($27). Made phone calls ($2).
Called Jon to tell him someone was threatening my life and when I finally
got him (laughs) he didn’t care. People were still asking for autographs,
though, so I bought more disguises ($15.74) and then cabbed to Park and
18th ($5.50). Robyn was waiting for me there. A Detective Rooney or
something like that from the NYPD came over. And Risa Dickstein, she’s
Interview’s lawyer, said she has a detective we can hire, but I’m going to
hire Agosto to be my bodyguard and go places with me.
Anyway, I wrapped some presents and then was picked up by Jon Gould
and we went to La Grenouille to meet Chris Makos and Peter Wise (cab
$6). The place was crowded with funny Miami Beach people. We got an up-
front table. And all the other people in the restaurant were jealous because
we were having so much fun, they wanted to join the party. We’d brought
gifts for each other and we were opening our gifts. For dessert we ordered
two souffles and champagne. And money is the best gift so I gave Jon and
Peter each $100 in one-dollar bills. And I also gave Peter $25 rolls of
pennies which were so heavy. And Jon I gave $80 of Susan B. Anthony
dollars. Jon gave Peter a teapot and a big mixing bowl. I gave them all
silver clothespins for their letters. We were there till about midnight having
a good time, and we were blowing bubbles and Marcel the captain got a
little mad at that (dinner $400).
Tuesday, May 5, 1981
Vincent hired some security. He didn’t want me to come to the office, but I
had work to do.
Peter Wise told me that I should get a bulletproof vest, that he knew
where you could get them. I was a chatterbox because I was nervous. Went
down to 11th and University Place to a funny shop on the second floor (cab
$6). Peter had called Christopher to meet me there and take photographs. I
bought a bulletproof vest ($270). The guy was really creepy, he said his
business had really soared after the Reagan thing. He had dresses and coats
and everything bulletproof, and there was a sports jacket I asked him to
hold for me, that I’d come back and pick up, and it seems really warm for
winter, too. We asked him what else he had, and he said he wouldn’t say in
front of the media, because a journalist from Stern came there with us, so
Christopher can’t wait to go back there to see what he’s got that he wouldn’t
say. Then Christopher had his bike downstairs but I couldn’t even get on it,
with my backpack. I called Jay Shriver at the office and he came to meet me
around the back of the building. Went up in the freight elevator.
Then it was the busiest day ever. The cop we rented couldn’t believe all
the freaks we have up there. And there’s always some new girl at Interview
who’ll buzz anybody in. I called Jon at Paramount, he was in meetings. Bob
didn’t come down to the office.
Brigid’s jealous because I’ve lost all this weight, but she looks better
with her face filled in a little. She got rid of her cat Billy because he was
sick with a virus so she’s heartless and cruel. I told her, “You’re no good.”
And she just says she doesn’t want to talk about it, she’s waiting for a new
cat to come in at the store.
Jackie Curtis came up and she just has dyed hair, but short. He’d been to
Gstaad and had a really handsome boyfriend with her, I don’t know how
she does it, and she’s fat and smelled of liquor and she was limping so it
was really pathetic. She brought me a shopping bag. [Note: when Andy
talked about men who wore women’s clothes or makeup, he would randomly
refer to them as “he” or “she.”]
Oh, and that guy at that shop said he made a bulletproof raincoat for the
pope. And disguises don’t seem to work for me—I’m going to get a
fisherman’s hat tomorrow. I think that’s the best, like Mr. Winters used to
wear.
Picked up Jon on the corner of 18th between Eighth and Ninth and we
went to Chris Makos’s on Waverly Place (cab $9). Found a Citibank
machine and Jon used it, and I’ve never done one before and it’s so
exciting, it asks you questions.
Wednesday, May 6, 1981
I called Jay Shriver at the office and he came downstairs to meet me and get
me in safely, and the place was busy with people. Lunch was for Sylvia
Miles and she was already there.
Jon called and said that he was trying to get a reservation for his Gulf +
Western boss Charles Bluhdorn who wanted to take Barry Diller to dinner
at “87” and he wanted to know if I could help him. It’s a new restaurant and
it’s very small and hard to get into. But I mean, no restaurant’s that big a
deal. So I called Henry Geldzahler, the commish, and he said that okay he
would call and try but only because Charles Bluhdorn had given $2 million
to the city last year. So he tried and they said it was impossible. So I called
Jon back and he was thinking he was going to lose his job, but then
Bluhdorn cancelled the dinner anyway.
Cab to the Ritz ($4). Neil Bogart was giving a Prom Night party.
Downstairs one of those boring fans was dancing and smoking joints and
acting crazy, and he wanted to come upstairs with me but he didn’t have a
pass. I decided to have a hot dog, it was Nathan’s, it was good. And then
that kid somehow got up and was sitting with us, and then Eva, the lady
journalist from Stern, did a great thing—she started telling him that she
didn’t know what she was doing with the Andy Warhol double. She said she
was a second-string reporter at Stern and they didn’t even get her the real
Andy Warhol to interview, they got her the double, and what was she doing
in such a second-rate position, and somehow he believed her, he just got
right up and left, and he wouldn’t talk to me for the rest of the night. He
thought I was a fake Andy Warhol. Isn’t that great? Then we left and I
invited the German lady to Xenon for Grace Jones’s show.
Thursday, May 7, 1981
Cab to Mercer Street to have my pictures taken with my Myth prints (cab
$8). Rupert was waiting on the street corner because he wasn’t sure where
to go. The people from Stern were already there. They just put me in front
of the Myths, and I almost threw up, they looked so sixties. I’m not kidding,
they really did.
Glued myself together and picked up Jon Gould and we went to the
theater to see Little Foxes, and there was the biggest crowd. We had first-
row seats, in front of Halston and Liza and Mark. Liz Taylor’s mother was
there, she was cute, like Janet Gaynor. Lots and lots of curtain calls, they
would’ve gone on forever. They dragged Lillian Hellman onstage. Then we
went backstage. Senator Warner said hi to me. I told the colored maid how
great she was and so was Dennis Christopher.
Jon and I left and went to the birthday party that Lady McCrady was
giving for him at 15 or 17 Park Avenue, which is actually the backyard of
where I used to live in Murray Hill. And I was talking to this blonde girl for
a while and this guy said, “I bet you don’t know who you were talking to,”
and I said no, that I didn’t, and he said, “That’s Rita Jenrette, the
congressman’s wife who posed for Playboy.” She said she lives smack in
Harlem—I guess either she has no money or a black boyfriend. She’s really
kooky and really bright. Jon dropped me home and he came in for five
minutes and then he left.
Sunday, May 10, 1981
Tried calling Jon several times. Then I went to Ron Link’s play, and as soon
as I got home, Jon called, but I was so upset by that time that I couldn’t
even talk. Went to bed at 12:30.
Monday, May 11, 1981
Made an appointment with Doc Cox for Tuesday because my weight is so
down and I don’t want to get sick. 120.
Bob had arranged for us to go to a dinner that Earl Blackwell and
Eugenia Sheppard were setting up for the Sacklers. I got a limo and was
asked to bring a girl so I picked up Barbara Allen and we went to Doubles. I
had a black tie on but I should have worn black pants because I had jeans
on and those waiters were all looking at me funny. It was a really heavy-
duty dinner. All the right people were there. Andy Stein was there and I told
him if he wanted to have really beautiful skin he should go to Janet Sartin,
and he told me I should go to his gym place, so we’re going to exchange
numbers.
Then over the speakers came “Happy Birthday,” so everyone thought it
was Mr. Sackler’s birthday, but it turned out they piped it into the wrong
room by mistake. I just couldn’t take another Taurus birthday, I hate them.
A little dancing. Eugenia was so cute, she’s a Leo and she said, “My
boyfriend is a Taurus,” so I guess she and Earl are a couple. I guess it’s like
a mother. Well, I’m in that category, too.
Then I called Jon and Barbara Allen and I went over to his apartment on
the West Side and I spent an hour counting pennies with him—he was
balancing his budget—and he was rereading Popish and asking serious
meaningful questions about it and I couldn’t take it, it was too dumb. Left at
1:00.
Tuesday, May 12, 1981
Got up at 7:30 and called Chris Makos to discuss the evening before with
Jon Gould. I’ve offered Chris a reward—this one gold watch he wants—if
he can talk Jon into doing something with me, but even if nothing romantic
happens now, I still want Jon to move in, because then we’d see what
happens from there.
I had a 10:00 appointment with Doc Cox and I decided to get exercise
and walk to his office, but it wasn’t a good idea, I was overwalked and tired
by the time I got there. And the Doc didn’t really care about me. His hair
was dyed and he was pudgy and he just wanted to hear gossip. He gave me
some salve, and then he said I had to get polio, tetanus, and pneumonia
shots, and I didn’t want to, I said I’d do it some other day, but Rosemary
grabbed me on the way out and gave them all to me and she said I wouldn’t
have reactions, but I felt funny all day.
Wednesday, May 13, 1981
I had a lunch at 12:00, Charlie Cowles was coming with Sid and Anne Bass
and when I got down there he was already there, and everybody was
gathered around the TV and the pope had been shot. I started screaming, I
got so mad—“We lost a portrait that day when Reagan was shot and I don’t
want it to happen again! Turn that TV off!”
So the Basses came and looked at their portraits, and I have to change
some lips and do a whole bunch of new ones. I was down to 119 and I
really got scared. My stomach’s shrunk.
Ronnie came with me to Art Kane’s studio at 28th and Broadway to pose
for a ten-page spread in Italian Vogue. There was a Zoli model there who
was a stand-in for me, and he had a great body. The spread was that this guy
was murdering a girl with black panties over his face. The model was the
grandson of Goldwater and we’re doing him for Interview. Then the panties
came off the face and it was actually me who was stabbing the girl in the
pictures. So it only took an hour for me to do my part, and it was easy—she
put her heel in me and it was really fun. Then we left and it was great to
walk, it was really spring.
Got a call from Jon in Hollywood. Then I tried to call Bill Copley all
day to make an appointment when we could tape for the play I’m dying to
do on his life.
I had eight dinner invitations.
Went to Halston’s and Liza Minnelli was there. They had a copy of the
Post there that had “POPE SHOT” in red. It was great. And then we were
talking about bulletproof vests. Liza said that she wasn’t afraid of blacks
(laughs) because her father had given Lena Home a job.
Thursday, May 14, 1981
Chris Makos came up and we went up to the Trump building with Marc
Balet to photograph the architectural model of the building to make the
portrait from (cab $5). I was so thin I decided to have a Coke and that was
such a heavy trip because my stomach had shrunk so much.
Then cabbed to Bill Copley’s ($8) and Bill was sober and he’s lost
weight. He said that in Key West he was smoking and set himself on fire,
and he went to the hospital and they treated him and released him and then
the wife served him with papers. But he’s still crazy about her—he’s
decided to buy the two surplus portraits of her that I did, I don’t know what
he’ll do with them. Remember, this is the wife who was the ex-madam.
Sunday, May 17, 1981
We went to the Savoy, Francois de Menil’s birthday party at his new club,
and it was wall-to-wall people. There were supposed to be 600 people there
and it looked like there were, and I think I knew every single person. Earl
McGrath, Ahmet and Mica Ertegun, Debbie Harry who’s now got brown
hair and looks so normal and ordinary, she was cute. Nobody really took
pictures of Ina Ginsburg’s date, Godunov, I guess they just thought he was a
long-haired blond hippie in a black leather jacket. Bob was with the
Stassinopoulos lady, the one who wrote the Maria Callas book.
Then I kept running into strange-looking people who said they were “co-
owners” of the club and I started getting worried about Francois.
Philippa de Menil was introducing Heiner as her husband, so I guess
maybe they got married. I got drunk and got up to dance and people took
pictures. Me with the girlfriend of Stephen Graham. Then the Pointer
Sisters came on and sang “Happy Birthday.” It was fun to see my boss,
Zoli, there—I felt like a working girl. And I went up to John Belushi and
said, “You never remember me,” because that’s what he said to me twice
when I didn’t know who he was. And then we danced together, that was
fun.
Got home at 2:00 and Christopher called and said he was just at the
Baths. I called Jon at the Beverly Wilshire.
Thursday, May 21, 1981
There was a message for me when I got home that Jon Gould had called and
said he was getting the red-eye and would be in New York at 7 A.M. and
waiting at 8:00 for Christopher to pick him up to go to Cape Cod. I had so
much to pack—costumes, film, cameras, radios, TV—that I didn’t get it all
done.
Friday, May 22, 1981 — New York—East
Falmouth, Massachusetts
Peter Wise was waiting for Jon and Chris and me when we landed. The
plane cost about $800, but I paid by check. Peter took us to his house and
gave us a tour of the place all the way back to his greenhouse. And we got
room assignments, and Vincent and Shelly were planning to come up after
work and we spent all day and all night waiting for them.
I saw this big boat on the water that was half painted and it was so pretty
and such a nutty boat and it looked like we could have a party on it. Then
Peter and Christopher took us around to show us the town. Peter bought
chowder at Mildred’s Chowder House in Hyannis, which they say is the
best chowder place in really all of New England. Vincent and Shelly finally
arrived, it took them eight hours to drive up and it should have only taken
five.
Saturday, May 23, 1981— East Falmouth
We got up around 11:00 and Peter made apple pancakes, applejacks, for
breakfast and we had real maple syrup and bacon. Then we got in the car
and went to the flea market in Mashpee. Went to the Thornton Burgess
Museum—he wrote Peter Cottontail—and fed the swans and ducks with
Wonder Bread that Christopher bought. Then we went and had lunch at the
fried-clam place at Sandy Neck, and we all had fried clams and fried fish
and lots of ketchup and milkshakes and frappes ($35 including tip). Then
we drove home.
Peter and I went into another room to talk and while we were doing that
we heard all this commotion in the back room and when we went in, there
was a big water-pistol fight. Nobody wanted to give up until finally
Christopher did give up because he was cornered in the bathroom. Shelly
and Jon were winning and they were sneaks. Then Christopher went up to
Jon and slapped him right in the face, and it was so dramatic, we just
couldn’t believe it, and he just stood there taking it, but he said it didn’t
hurt, that he thought it was all in fun. And he told me that he has to win at
everything, that he has to decide what’s right and what’s not right, and that
if he wants it he gets it and if he doesn’t want it he doesn’t care, but he has
to decide he wants it and that’s all he wants. When Chris slapped him I
think he really liked it. I think he really does want to get slapped. And then
it all calmed down.
Sunday, May 24, 1981—East Falmouth
We went to Falmouth Harbor where we chartered that 70’ boat I liked. It
took an hour to get over to Martha’s Vineyard. And Jon was wearing the set
of pearls I gave him that go down to the ground and it looked sort of
beautiful on him, he looked like a deep-sea fisherman. We arrived at Oak
Bluff where all the gingerbread houses are, and we photographed a
wedding. The girl was Irish marrying a guy from South America. Then we
drove to Edgartown. We were very hungry. We went across the street to the
Colonial Inn and the people there went and got their copies of Popisw and
Interview for autographs and I signed them. And one kid even came up with
the Tate Gallery poster of my Marilyn (lunch $120). And then we took the
ferry over to Chappaquiddick with the car ($5). And we photographed a guy
giving us his whole story on where it happened and how it happened and
why he didn’t believe it. We retraced all the steps to see if Ted Kennedy was
really guilty of this accident and we came to the conclusion that he was.
When we got home Jon called his family in Amesbury and then he said
his grandfather had had a stroke and his dog had had a relapse so that
instead of going back with us to New York, he wanted us to drop him off in
Amesbury.
Monday, May 25, 1981—East Falmouth—New
York
Took the plane ride back from Hyannis to LaGuardia. Everyone was eating
peanuts and popcorn, and all of a sudden the plane actually really flipped
over and I didn’t care if we would have killed ourselves, because I was so
unhappy. I’d thought that this trip would bring some progress with Jon, but
it didn’t. He’d left us to go see his family who really adore him. Oh, but
from now on I can’t talk personally about Jon to the Diary because when I
told him I did, he got mad and told me not to ever do it again, that if I ever
put anything personal about him in the Diary he’d stop seeing me. So from
now on, it’ll just be the business angle in the Diary—he’ll just be a person
who works for Paramount Pictures who I’m trying to do scripts and movies
with.
I gave a tip to the airplane driver ($100). And tipped the limousine
driver ($20).
Got a call from Tina Chow inviting me to a party for David Bailey and
his wife Marie. It turned out it was actually a big party. Marie is really
beautiful, she had on one of those slit dresses. Eric Boman and Peter
Schlesinger were there. I told everybody how I was a male model now, I
was trying to hustle work. Jerry Hall came over and told how to suck cock
and lick pussy and she told some jokes and it was fun, and then David
started telling jokes. Paloma Picasso was there and she gave me a big kiss.
Tuesday, May 26, 1981
Doria Reagan was typing letters for Bob and I didn’t even recognize her, I
was walking by. She was in a T-shirt and shorts, and she looked cute. I
invited her in for the lunch but she said she had too much work to do, she’s
working four hours a day—she gets things done very quickly.
I went over to 927 Fifth Avenue to the Zilkhas’ dinner for the people
who own Dior. It was sweet of Cecile Zilkha to invite me because it was
really a heavy-duty dinner. Happy Rockefeller was happy to see me. I
should have talked to her a lot. Annette Reed had a fifty-carat sapphire on a
diamond necklace that was about two inches wide. She was dressed
beautifully. She’s a sister of the Sophie Englehard girl who’s Jane Holzer’s
friend, the one who’s with the black football player who I met in
Washington. The ladies were all statuesque. Dina Merrill was with her
husband Cliff Robertson. Alex Liberman was there with his wife, Tatiana.
Carolina Herrera was there, and I’d brought the new issue of Interview and
she stole it because her picture was in it.
All the fairies were there. And it was old-fashioned kind of living. If this
style of living goes on, it will be incredible. How can it last? The first
course was crab meat in tomato aspic and you don’t see things like that
anymore. And then the chicken with fresh cranberries and rice with nuts,
and chocolate mousse with hard crumbled cake, and good wine all served
so beautifully. And flower arrangements up to the ceiling. Bill Blass was
there and Pat Buckley in Bill Blass. But everybody looked so old. But then,
I guess, I fit in. But it’s funny they would think to invite me. I’m looking
very good now, I could have any of these old bags. I should go after Yoko
Ono but I’d probably do it at the wrong time—just when she’d just found
somebody I’d call her.
I got home to no phone call from California.
Wednesday, May 27, 1981
I worked on some Lynn Revson portraits.
I finally got a call from Jon in California. I didn’t think I’d ever get
another one, but I decided we might as well be friendly, it’s easier, so we
talked about the weather.
Zoli told me how when he first came to New York he actually lived on
the roof of Chris Makos’s building on Waverly and 11th all one summer
because he didn’t have any money. There was a way to get onto the roof
and there was a good sleeping chair up there.
Friday, May 29, 1981
I called Halston and told him that I’d like to save my invitation out to
Montauk for another time because I had to work on paintings this weekend.
Maura Moynihan called and said she loved her Interview cover, that it
didn’t look anything like her. It’s one of the best covers Richard Bernstein’s
ever done. Maura said that she has two boys she likes—one is straight and
one is bi, and they’re both in her band that she’s just left, and she wants
them both and they’re both fighting over her and they’re best friends.
Saturday, May 30, 1981
I had a long philosophy talk with Brigid and we both decided that maybe
time had passed us by. When I saw myself in those home movies we took
on the Cape last weekend I hated myself so much. Every simple thing I do
looks strange. I have such a strange walk and a strange look. If I could only
have been a peculiar comic in the movies, I would have looked like a
puppet. But it’s too late. What’s wrong with me? I look at Vincent and
Shelly and they look normal. And I don’t look good in cowboy boots
anymore, I don’t think. I think I’ll get sneakers. I’ll have Jay take me over
to Paragon to get some.
Monday, June 1, 1981
Met with Marc Balet to show him the portrait of Trump Tower that I’m
doing. Marc’s arranged it so that the catalogue cover he’s designing will be
my painting and then the Trumps would wind up with this painting of their
building. It’s a great idea, isn’t it?
Ronnie’s going off to Basel to show his work at an art fair with Lucio
Amelio.
I was taping Maura for dialogue for a Broadway show I want to do
called Runaway so we went to the building where her two boyfriends live,
and it’s the most incredible place, it gave me ideas. It’s unbelievable—sixty
different rock bands are all in this one building and some nutty guy owns it.
We went up three floors and I asked the boys to show me some other rooms
in the building, and so they’d knock on a door and say something like,
“What do you groove in?” and they’d say, “We’re the Spikes,” and then
another door and it’d be “Bongo and the Bears.” They all pay $480 a month
for a really small place. I’m going to go back there and really study the
building. Runaway can be in this building and it’ll be the story of who the
girl chooses, a love story. It’s such a crazy place, you’re in the hallway and
there’s nothing but noise. The bi boyfriend said that he would dump Maura
if I could get him David Bowie, and I said I would try.
Maura lives at Louise Westergaard’s, who produces with Sondra Gilman
—she takes care of the kids, and in return she gets to live there. And she
had to get up early in the morning to get them off to school, so we went
home. The straight boyfriend asked Maura if it was okay to go home with
her, and she said yes. They kiss every minute and they kiss beautifully, with
their hands.
Tuesday, June 2, 1981
Got up early. Chris was picking me up to go to the Whitney show of that
artist who we’ve known for a while, the one influenced by me who does the
billboardlike Polaroids of faces—I can’t think of his name … Chuck Close.
And then we also went to look at the Guglielmi thing downstairs. His
wife could never sell his paintings, and now here he is, at the Whitney with
a big show. I wanted to know if she was still alive, and I was going to ask
somebody who worked there and I ended up giving out Interviews instead.
She used to have me to dinner in the fifties, she was kind of generous. She
lived in the Café des Artistes.
And then we looked at the forties show and then you think how much
better Chuck Close is than the painters in that show.
Then we went over to the Port Authority Bus Terminal (cab $6). They’re
still renovating over there. We went into Walgreen’s to photograph some of
the real people and then we asked the waitress if we could take pictures and
she went to ask the manager and he said yes, if we didn’t show the name
“Walgreen’s.” But all we wanted to photograph was this waitress and she
had Walgreen’s written all over her (Walgreen’s $7).
Thursday, June 4, 1981
I think I got a cold from drinking a really cold daiquiri. I can feel it, it
pierced me.
I called California and was told he was too busy to talk.
Got ready to go right in the neighborhood to the party at Bob Guccione’s
house for Roy Cohn. Roy was great, I took pictures. I want to be friends
with him, but distant friends. And there was a Bunny—a Pet—there, and I
didn’t know what to say to her so I told her she had a great body. Then
LeRoy Neiman came over and he was thrilled that we’re going to have a
(laughs) one-man show together and I just—I mean—well, Philip Morris
gave this guy some money to do a show of Neiman and me together.
Anyway, I won’t go to it. I talked to LeRoy about why does Bob Guccione
dress like such a fairy with all the jewelry. He had Rembrandts and Mr.
Newhouse, Clyde, told me they were reproductions, and he also had
Chagalls and Picassos so I don’t know if they were reproductions, too. The
house has a swimming pool.
And what I forgot to say is the other night I had a blackout like I used to
have when I was little. At first I thought it was because of flash bulbs, but
there were no flash bulbs really right there, and it got me so scared that I’m
having a brain tumor or that I’m getting the Dark Victory disease.
Saturday, June 6, 1981
I’m really getting to hate living with antiques, they make you look like the
place. They really do.
Tuesday, June 9, 1981
Called Doc Cox’s office and asked Rosemary if I could get a B-12 shot
before going to Seattle for my show there (cab $3). Rosemary was going to
give me a pneumonia shot, it’s so you don’t get colds and things in your
chest. When I’d told them before that I was losing weight they’d told me I
should have this shot, but I didn’t think I really had to, I didn’t take it
seriously. I had a fever of 100 and Rosemary got mad and said I might have
pneumonia and told me to go right home and get into bed and stay there for
two days or else I couldn’t go to Seattle. Got a chest X-ray. So I went home
and got into bed although I felt okay.
Fred had to come up with papers so I could send my IRS things out. I
actually might not go to Seattle. The Doc said I had to have another chest
X-ray on Thursday. I’ve always had this theory that I can walk through
everything, but it’s not working.
Wednesday, June 10, 1981
Archie’s really acting sick and I don’t know if it’s because he’s worried
about me because I’m home, or if he’s sick because he wishes I’d get out of
the house. Well, my philosophy is, Life is not worth living if you’re not
healthy, and health is wealth—it’s better than money and companionship
and love and everything else.
I haven’t said that Lynn Revson called and said she loved the portrait but
that her cheekbones looked too fat. I knew she’d be trouble.
Got a call from Paramount Pictures again. He’s coming to New York on
Friday, just when I’m leaving.
Thursday, June 11, 1981
Got up and didn’t have a fever. Had an appointment with Doc Cox (cab $3).
He took X-rays, the infection was still there. He said not to go to Seattle and
California. I was depressed the whole day.
Friday, June 12, 1981
The pneumonia was on the mend. The Doc told me I could go out but that I
should be careful.
Jon was back in town and he said he thought I was going away so he’d
made plans to go away for the weekend and so I guess my whole
relationship’s fallen apart. He said he’d call me and he didn’t, which was
mean. I have to pull myself together and go on. I have to get a whole new
philosophy. I don’t know what to do. I watched Urban Cowboy, and John
Travolta just dances so beautifully. It was a really good movie. A Paramount
movie, so that made me think more about Jon and I felt worse. I cried
myself to sleep.
Now I’m sure I got the pneumonia from that cold daiquiri I drank. And
probably if I hadn’t gone to the doctor I wouldn’t have known I had it and I
would have gotten over it. I have a vaporizer in my room.
Saturday, June 13, 1981
Had a horrible day, so depressed. I decided I would explode if I didn’t get
out of the house and I wanted to go to work.
I was meeting Rupert at the office but he wasn’t there yet, so I went in
and pressed the elevator button and the elevator was right there on the first
floor and the doors opened and standing in the elevator were two
Rastafarians. A man and a woman. It was so strange. So I backed away and
went outside and Rupert finally came and then he went in and told them to
leave and they just left. I guess they were stoned. They were just standing
there like mannequins.
Sunday, June 14, 1981
This day was better and not so depressing. I decided to stay home next to
the vaporizer and watch TV. I decided to watch cable TV and see what a
Neil Simon movie is like and so I watched Chapter Two and it happened to
hit the spot. I liked it a lot. The lines are really funny. Then the phone rang
and it was Jon calling as if nothing had happened, as if he hadn’t gone away
for the weekend and not called once.
Monday, June 15, 1981
When I got to the office Robyn was just so out of it. He’s a sweet kid, but
his mind’s not on his work. Jay Shriver’s a good worker, though, and you
can trust him.
Richard Weisman called and said that Margaret Trudeau was in town
and would I like to have dinner. Jon called and I invited him and he said it
would be fun to meet Margaret Trudeau. Went to meet everyone at George
Martin’s restaurant at 9:10. Margaret arrived and she was a little heavier. I
think she should go back to her thin look, because now she looks a little
older. She was with Bruce Nevins who used to say he’d give us Perrier ads,
but he didn’t. And George Martin came over and it was so exciting, he
introduced me to Rick Cerone who said, “I want you to do my portrait.” He
was really nice.
Bianca was there, too and finally, for once, Jon wasn’t complaining that
he had to go home to work. So finally I said that I was tired and had to rest
so we left.
Tuesday, June 16, 1981
Got up early, went to a 10:30 appointment with Doc Cox. I was feeling fine,
took my own temperature, and it was normal. The Doc said the pneumonia
had completely cleared up.
Then I went to meet Jon at Citibank on the corner of Park and 57th,
where he was getting a loan. It used to be my bank and it still is, sort of,
because I have a safety-deposit box there which they haven’t sent me any
notices about for a long time. I should see about it. I think it has my deed to
the house on Lexington and 89th Street. When I used to go to this bank
there was just a teller, and now there’s lines around the block.
Ran into Pat York. Ran into Gene Simmons of Kiss. Ran into an old rep
of mine.
Eva from Stern sent over the article she wrote and I just couldn’t believe
it. I mean, I poured out my heart to her and she wrote the kind of rehashed
article, you know—“Father died in coal mines/Warhola/Carnegie Tech”—
and I poured out my heart to her. I actually gave her a good interview
because she kept saying she wanted to do something really different. I mean
I even toldher that my father was a construction worker, and still—“Father
died in coal mines.” I mean, I only gave it because I liked the guy who has
Stern who was so nice to us in Munich. The one who’s doing the liquor
that’ll last till the year 2000. And she didn’t put in any of the young things
that we did. The modern things. I mean, we had that great night at the Ritz
which was really interesting where she told the kid I was an Andy Warhol
double—and she didn’t even use that.
I went to see Janet Sartin and confessed that her treatments weren’t
working, that I had eighteen pimples and that I’d gone back to my
Orentreich methods because he has that stuff that dries them up overnight.
Did some Gun drawings and Gun paintings.
Oh, and I heard that Jed’s sister Susan is marrying Mel Brooks’s son! I
mean if that spoiled girl lands on Easy Street I just won’t be able to stand it.
Wednesday, June 17, 1981
Fred is going off to Europe and I don’t know why. He should be staying in
town, seeing to business. But for some reason he thinks he’s part of the
London scene. For some reason he identifies with all those English kids
who sponge off him. And we never get work from England from any of
them. I don’t know.
And Tom Sullivan died. At twenty-four. His heart failed.
John Reinhold invited us over for drinks to see his Michael Graves
apartment. So we went over there and it used to be big rooms and Michael
Graves turned it into a railroad flat. Really, if you’ve ever seen a cold-water
flat, that’s what this looked like. Eighteen million columns and doors that
open and things that swing out and a million details, and so many different
colors, it was ridiculous. I mean, it’ll probably photograph well, they can
make it look really big, but he took these great Robert Stern rooms and
made three rooms and eight closets out of it. I mean it’s really detailed, and
you can’t believe how detailed, but it just—I don’t know what it’s supposed
to mean. I got tired. Went home at 11:30, had some codeine cough medicine
and went to bed.
Thursday, June 18, 1981
Went over to Tiffany’s. Paloma’s jewelry looks good, actually. There’s
nothing different about it, but she does have a look. Elsa’s stuff is selling.
Margaret Truman’s son who we met once was selling envelopes there.
Finally talked to Jon. He said it would be okay for me to come over
while he packed to go to Robert Redford’s Sundance Foundation. So then I
got a brainstorm and I went to Cote Basque in the Olympic Tower and got
lunches ($25). Cabbed to Jon’s ($3). Watched him pack and he threw a
tantrum because his Armani pants were one inch too small. I couldn’t
believe it. I decided to water his plants. He was getting a 4:30 plane so I
dropped him at the Gulf + Western building and went down to the office
(cab $6).
I haven’t had any liquor for a while and I feel wonderful. But then, I
don’t know, maybe I’m high on antibiotics. I don’t know what’s making me
feel good.
Went to the Kennedy dinner at the Metropolitan Club. Caroline Kennedy
came over and she was so much fun. And Ted Kennedy came over and he
was adorable. Caroline was next to a Chinese surgeon who couldn’t see, but
they said he was still operating. His wife was cutting his food for him.
Tip O’Neill gave a speech, he was good. He said a twenty-minute joke
which actually wasn’t funny, but it was great delivery. And Bill Bradley was
there, he said he had Rauschenberg and me both on his walls.
Senator Moynihan’s losing weight, he was great, adorable. This was a
$1,000-a-plate dinner. They had folk dancing and Irish jigs. Then this
Indian called Hassim wanted to dance with Caroline and she turned him
down and then he said, “Well maybe you’ll dance with my son,” and he
brought over this really great-looking son. The father said that in the early
sixties he was a poet and that he’d come to the Factory and that I’d ignored
him. I don’t remember. Then Caroline got really interested in him because
he was talking about magic things, you know, Harvard-style, like what a
light bulb was before it was a light bulb. The guy’s wife looked like me, but
more refined. Very white skin. Like a Czechoslovakian beauty. I left and
went home. I waited for a call from Jon and finally it came at 2:00 and then
I could go to sleep.
Friday, June 19, 1981
Waited for a call from Utah from Jon. He called and he seemed really nice.
I’m not drinking and it feels so great, but I’ve got to try to stop taking
Valium. And I’m losing weight even though I’m eating, which scares me,
because I don’t know if it’s because I’m not drinking or then maybe it’s also
because of the antibiotics. But then, I do like being thin. Although your
resistance is lower. I guess you should lose it slowly over a year.
Saturday, June 20, 1981
Fred should be around to take care of things instead of being in Europe.
Fred really thinks he’s English royalty, that’s what it’s become when he
drinks. He identifies with them and I don’t know why.
Chris Stein showed us some 1950 Weegee photos and they were just
great. Weegee was the newspaper photographer who would get the first
radio call to all the crimes and things, and so he would get those kinds of
photos. Most of the pictures Chris bought were of a Greenwich Village
party, and you’d think you were looking at pictures of a 1980s party—it
looks just the same! It’s funny that things really don’t change. I mean,
people think they change, but they don’t. There were people wearing
clothes with safety pins in them and two boys kissing in a window and a
woman looking on, and then it was called “Living in Greenwich Village”
and now it’s called New Wave or something. But it’s the same.
Sunday, June 21, 1981
I notice that my skin is better when I use the vaporizer, it keeps your nose
clear and keeps your skin from drying out.
Jon called finally and said he was back from Utah, he was at the Gulf +
Western building, and he gave me some song and dance about how he was
too tired to come over, how he’d lost his luggage and his keys, but he had
too much spunk and the song and dance was just too hard to handle—he
said it was raining and it wasn’t raining—and I just decided that that’s the
end of that. I went to bed with Valium.
Monday, June 22, 1981
The morning was just a disaster, I had the worst night’s sleep ever. I
shouldn’t let these things happen to me, but … And my weight loss is still
scary. I mean, I like being thin, but it’s scary.
Got a call from Jon and he apologized for not coming over and said that
maybe we could work things out. We made a dinner date. He came over and
we had a serious talk. He was in his running suit. We went to Le Relais, and
they didn’t mind that he was dressed that way. We sat down next to Edmund
Gaultney. Then Rita Lachman came over with a Xerox of her invitation to
the Prince Charles-Lady Diana wedding. Bob said she keeps the original in
a vault. I just know they’re going to disinvite her—say it was a mistake or
something (dinner $59). If you don’t drink, meals are so cheap.
I had an interesting talk with Jon. He said that I wasn’t a serious enough
person, that whenever he would say something significant I would make a
light comment. So I’ll have to try to be more serious. We talked about the
movie business. He hates being caught between Barry Diller and the other
boss.
I’m having a vaporizer on all the time now, I really think it’s helping my
skin.
Thursday, June 25, 1981
Had to sign the Gun painting for Chris Stein. Debbie Harry had given me
some hair-removing wax. I’m using it all over and it really hurts.
Friday, June 26, 1981
I got my B-12 shot at Doc Cox’s, only Rosemary missed and I got black
and blue and a bloody shirt. On my way out a guy tried to pick me up. He
said he was a record engineer and that he lived with a private investigator,
and that the private investigator makes him get dressed up in drag
sometimes for entrapment but that he was sick of it. I got away from him.
Then I got a call from Jon and we were supposed to go to a movie but he
said he was on the verge of pneumonia, so he couldn’t go out, so I said I’d
bring the transcripts of my tapes of Maura Moynihan over for him to work
on while he was in bed. We’re trying to see how all this dialogue can be
turned into a play. So I dropped Rupert off (cab $6). Went to Jon’s and
stayed there a couple of hours, and got to bed at 11:30.
Thursday, July 2, 1981
One of the B-52s came to the office and bought a Spacefruit portfolio. And
he always thinks I’m abstract because I never know who he is. His name’s
Fred. He’s a friend of Jay Shriver’s girlfriend, Karen Moline.
I went to Mick and Jerry’s party at Mr. Chow’s (cab $7.50). I had fun
chatting about abortions and sex, but I have to get off those subjects and
talk about politics or something, because when I read interviews that I do,
the questions I ask are so awful. Stupid. Somebody besides me, if they
could spend a day taping the person, would do a better job. I’m down on
myself.
Saturday, July 4, 1981
It rained and rained. It was the day of Averil’s wedding to Tim Haydock.
Suzie Frankfurt was getting us a limo out to Manhasset.
Got a call from Christopher on the Cape. Peter wants to stay up there all
summer and work on his art and take care of the garden which hasn’t been
taken care of since his father died. If he stays up there all summer and
makes art and then comes to the city and sells it in the winter, he thinks it’s
a good plan, which it is, but Christopher can’t stand family life and Peter’s
mother’s up there and even though she likes the idea of Chris and Peter
being together, Christopher just doesn’t like family life. His father’s Greek
and he lives with a Chinese guy and his mother’s in California, she’s Italian.
Went out to Manhasset. Averil looked beautiful. The Kennedy boy who
traded ties with me at his brother’s wedding was there, wearing the tie I’d
traded him, so he was imaginative. He said he was always going to wear it
to weddings. I should have worn his. Catherine was there, she was a
bridesmaid and her hair’s lighter, so I guess she dyed it.
The boys had to pick up the girls and take them to their seats, and they
were (laughs) about to take me until they realized I wasn’t a girl, after all.
They played “America the Beautiful” and everybody talked and yelled
during the ceremony. Averil’s whole family was there, so tall. And Fred was
there in his morning coat. And Vincent and Shelly. And Rachel Ward was a
bridesmaid, she just finished a movie with Burt Reynolds and now she’s off
to California to star opposite Steve Martin, so she’s really made it. Jerry and
Mick were there and Jerry’s just dying to get married herself, you could feel
the tension.
It was pouring rain and we went in the limo to the reception. It’s such a
great house. Talked to Catherine, she said Winnie wrote her a letter about
Tom Sullivan dying that began: “Somebody who loved you so much is
dead.” Which was the exact same note she sent me. I don’t know why
Winnie’s bothering, it was like a form letter.
And I was telling John Samuels—John Stockwell—that I thought he
would have made it as an actor by now, and he said, “Listen, I’m only
twenty,” and then I realized he was right! I keep thinking he’s like twenty-
five. He invited me to his father’s house over on West Island in Glen Cove
where a lot of people at the wedding were staying for the weekend. It’s the
ninety-room Morgan house and there’s like thirty guests and one servant—
Nona Summers was saying how she mentioned she’d like breakfast in bed
and everybody laughed at her. And John Samuels told me how Michael
Kennedy was swinging on the chandelier, but then when you go to his
house they say, “Don’t touch that—it’ll break!” and they’re pointing at
some cheap chair. He says that they save all their destruction for when they
go visiting, that that’s why they’re always so rowdy wherever they go—
because they’re so careful around their own things.
All the kids were dancing and swimming naked. At 8:30 it was still
raining. Then we left to go home and a boy jumped in the car, sat in front, I
don’t know who he was. We gave him a ride home.
Sunday, July 5, 1981
At 12:00 Jon called and said he’d come over and we could go for a walk.
He’s gained ten pounds and I’ve lost weight. I’m back to 118 again. I
should eat but I’ll have to think about it, because I like being thin.
Wednesday, July 6, 1981
Victor is on jury duty. (laughs) Can you picture that?
Cabbed to 666 Fifth Avenue, to Halston’s screening of Liza’s movie
Arthur ($7). I loved the movie. Dudley Moore is so funny. Afterwards Jon
said it was a “slight movie” and I said, “But you were laughing all the way
through,” and he said, “Well, it’s no Raiders.”
I don’t know what’s happening with Jon. Things just coast along. But I
just have to be in love now or I’ll go crazy. I just have to feel something.
And I’m really jealous because Jon has a family he loves and likes to see,
but my family, when they try to visit me, I always say I’m out of town.
Have I ever told the Diary that Jon is a twin? Isn’t that sick? Just like Jed.
And guess what the twin’s name is: Jay.
Wednesday, July 8, 1981
Jerry Hall came by with a Halston model named Carol, and models just all
talk that baby talk, the girls and the boys—you always know you’re talking
to a model.
Got a cab and the driver was complaining because the woman wouldn’t
pay the surcharge that’s supposed to go into effect after 8:00 because they
said it was one minute before 8:00. He said it was two minutes after, but I
showed him on my watch that it was one minute of. I’ve got to start getting
receipts ($6). I carry my own pad.
Everyone tells me they like my hair this new way. I cut it every day. It’s
almost a crewcut. Fred said I dress like the kids I hang around with now, he
likes it. I guess the preppie look really is big because of the Preppie
Handbook. I’m wearing all of Jed’s leftover clothes, the ones he left behind.
I’m so skinny they fit me now.
Thursday, July 9, 1981
Halston invited me to Montauk, so I’m going at 6:30 on Friday with him on
his rented plane. It’s so nice to be invited to your own house by the person
who’s renting it—you feel at home and you’re still making money. I invited
Chris Makos and Jon.
Friday, July 10, 1981—New York—Montauk
When we got to Halston’s house he looked at Christopher and said, “Oh, are
you coming?” which put a damper on Chris and on me, too. I’d called Faye
at Halston’s and also Victor to say I was bringing him.
There’s a fruit stand that some local people set up at the entrance to our
property and it looks so tacky. Otherwise everything’s the same, it’s so
beautiful.
Saturday, July 11, 1981— Montauk
Went to the kitchen for coffee in the main house. Pat Cleveland was reading
her Latin books and her mind-control books. I told her about the Silver
Mind Control Place in New York that Jon said he went to. What’s that
name? Silva. Silva Mind Control. She was after Jon, showing him how to
walk like you have a dime up your ass and they did that well. She talks
model talk. And she plays the flute. Only three notes. And she does yoga.
All those things. She took off her clothes and they were nude sunbathing
and fucking the rocks. She had a great body and Jon had one, too, and Chris
is a little fat but it’s a good body and I had on my white protector and I was
safe except for my feet which got burned because I walked. Had lunch with
Halston, he was adorable. I tried to read scripts. Took a walk on the beach
over by Dick Cavett’s. Jon said he had to go back to town but Chris and I
convinced him to stay another night.
After dinner we watched Grease and at 12:30 I decided to go to bed
early.
Sunday, July 12, 1981—Montauk—New York
I was tired because I’d tried to sleep on my back last night so I wouldn’t get
wrinkles, but it’s just too hard, I’ll never do it. The plane came at 9:30 in the
morning. It was a beautiful day, the ride took forty minutes and we flew
over all the rich estates ($500 plus $20 tip).
Brigid called me, she’d just gotten out of the hospital. She has gallstones
the size of grapenuts. She said they want to operate. I told her that they
always want to operate, that it’s like doing portraits, you don’t care who you
do as long as you have someone to do. Because that’s where they make
their bucks. I told her to ask the doctor for painkilling stuff but she said she
already did and they wouldn’t give it to her, they said they needed to know
if she had pain so when she started having it they could give her the
operation. I think she should get it in September unless it’s really hurting
her. Life is just too hard. Called Rupert.
Then I got the book of my old paintings out and saw all the clever things
I used to do, and I just can’t think of anything clever to do now. Maybe I
should do Soup Cans again. Then Chris Makos called and said Schnabel
was big, that abstract expressionism was coming back. And he said that he
would bring a can over for me—Campbell’s Won Ton soup that has the
oriental lettering.
Called Jon and nobody answered. Saw a wonderful movie on TV, Coal
Miner’s Daughter, and I wished I taped it. Oh, I wish I was married to a
husband like that! Oh, he’s so cute, so wonderful.
Monday, July 13, 1981
Did forty pushups.
Glued myself together and picked up Jon and Catherine Guinness on the
corner of 63rd and Park. She looked like a floozy. She’s still the worst
dresser. These English girls don’t know how to dress. She had on a red
floozy skirt and backless shoes and her new blonde hair and these costume
jewelry earrings with diamonds that her mother gave her. She was sweet,
talked and bubbled for hours. Let’s see, the gossip, she said Fred was
seduced by the most beautiful girl, Natasha Grenfell—Zeffirelli is her
godfather, and Tennessee Williams is, too. We had a nice time at Xenon
(cab $4) seeing John McEnroe at a tennis charity thing.
Wednesday, July 15, 1981
I tried to work out the Newport thing that Bob got me involved in with the
Pells next weekend, it’s an anti-suicide thing, and I told Bob how could he
do that, since he knew I was for suicide, and he got crazy and didn’t know
what to say. He said I’d better not open my mouth. And I guess I better not
kill myself, either.
I’d gotten Mary Richardson an appointment to see Halston about a job
because she’d asked me to, but then she said she’d had lunch with Bill
Blass in the meantime and he was going to pay her $500 an hour to model,
and so she was thrilled about that and wasn’t even going to see Halston.
After I’d gone to all the trouble of getting her the appointment. Mary
decided to give a small dinner at Fred’s which turned out to be a big dinner
and she invited me and Fred got mad because he said he’d have to fix the
house up so I wouldn’t be upset when I saw it—he’s got all these English
kids staying there, it’s like a rooming house.
At Fred’s, Steve Aronson was there with Shelley Wanger and her new
boyfriend David Mortimer, who’s so good-looking. Then Steve—oh God,
he knows everything and he remembers just what you don’t want him to.
He looked at Jon and said to me, “What did you say his name was? What’s
that name? Isn’t he the one you told me thought that Popistn was badly
edited?” And I said, “Ohhh, please, Steve, not now.” And the thing I can’t
understand is why I would have told Steve that and even said Jon’s name to
him. That’s fascinating. Why would I do that? Why would I beg for trouble?
And when Steve heard that Fran was going to be on the cover of
Interview he said that he wanted to be on the cover, too, when his book
Hype came out. So then he was going on about how he had checked into
Jon—into exactly what his job was at Paramount—and how he was a “vice-
president in charge of inter-office memos” and finally I told him that if he
didn’t shut up I wouldn’t put him on the cover. So then he said he just
interviewed Roy Cohn and that he was going to ask him, “Aren’t you a big
fag?” but then he ended up liking him and he didn’t, so he still had the
leftover question and he asked me if I’dlike to admit that I was.
Thursday, July 16, 1981
At the party after the screening of Endless Love I talked to Don Murray and
I said that I’d just read in the paper that Liza was thinking of doing a
remake of Bus Stop and I said that if she at her age could play the girl, then
he could still play the virgin cowboy, and that he should go find her and tell
her. And he laughed. He’s still so good-looking and tall.
Monday, July 20, 1981
Got up. On the news was the tragedy of the weekend, the hotel walkway
that collapsed in Kansas City and a lot of people were killed. Oh and I’m
reading in the Enquirer about Kate Jackson and Andrew Stevens. Kate was
out with us at Halston’s in Montauk this past weekend. She was with Rock
Brynner, Yul’s son. Kate will do things like look at the ocean and say how
beautiful it is, or go out alone and stare at the moon or walk along the beach
alone and pick up a rock and throw it. (laughs) I’m serious! That kind of
corny thing. I don’t know. She’s from the South, but still….
I stopped at John Reinhold’s office to hear the news about the new
diamond discovery in Australia, and diamond prices are down. Went to the
office (cab $5).
I was really upset at Rupert because he’s gone away for weeks to
Jamaica, and now half of his assistants are going on vacation, too, and I got
really mad at one of them, Horst, because I was telling him that Rupert
better watch out, and if they couldn’t help me that I was going to find
myself another silkscreener. And Horst was laughing at me like a German—
he said, “I should have brought you a rose, so you would be in a better
mood.” And I said, “Look, don’t tell me about roses—Rupert got the job in
the first place because Alex Heinrici went on a vacation—a long vacation
just like this one that Rupert’s taking—and I just looked around and found
somebody else. And I can do it again.”
And I blew my cool all day—I hung up on a few people, but it’ll be
good for their memoirs.
Tuesday, July 21, 1981
Got a call from Jon cancelling out on our Newport trip.
Wednesday, July 22, 1981
Got up early, it was a pretty day. I was going to go walking with Interviews
but I had a lunch date with Mercedes Kellogg and she brought the von
Bulow guy, the one who’s accused of trying to kill his wife with insulin,
she’s been in a coma for months. Ala von Auersperg is her daughter from
her first husband and she and her brother are accusing him. He’s about fifty-
five, I think. He told anecdotes.
At 4:00 the Walt Disney film crew came and shot me in front of my
Shoes and my Walt Disney drawings. They asked me who my favorite
Disney character was and I said, “Minnie Mouse, because she can get me
close to Mickey.”
Friday, July 24, 1981
Jon came by and showed me his new car and we went for a ride. Still
nothing’s happening and I’m getting to think that I’ll just relax and not
expect anything, that it’s enough to spend time together. I don’t know.
Monday, July 27, 1981
Ran into Winnie Sullivan on the street. I thought she looked a little fat. I
asked her how she was doing, did she really miss Tom a lot and she said,
“He died but I’m pregnant.” I asked her if it was Tom’s baby, and she said,
“I’ve been seeing a lot of Jack Nicholson.” She’s very calculating, Winnie.
But who knows, maybe it is Jack’s and he’ll marry her. She’s very pretty.
Saturday, August 1, 1981
I’m up to five sets of fifteen pushups. And I told the office that they better
not be planning anything for my birthday next week, that if they did I
wasn’t even going to come down.
Sunday, August 2, 1981
Jon jogged over from the West Side. Chris Makos picked us up at 3:30 and
we went to the Whitney to see the Walt Disney show (admission $8). It was
really crowded and it was funny to see Walt Disney stuff on the walls. They
didn’t show it off too well, though. Mostly Mickey Mouse.
Then we saw the Georgia O’Keeffe show on another floor and she does
these flowers and slashes and all she does is paint vaginas. And we saw
some other people’s stuff and you can tell the girls’ stuff always because it’s
simple things, it’s the easy stuff. You can tell.
Then we took a ride and we wanted to go to the River Cafe but they
were done serving, so we stopped someplace outdoors in the Village and the
food was awful ($70). But we watched everybody, people with great chests,
just back from Fire Island and people cruising in gym shorts with their balls
hanging out on purpose—horrible-looking people.
Then we cabbed to the trendy West Side just to be seen—Columbus
Avenue—it was eighteen deep, people walking. It’s like the 1930s with
people trying to be discovered, doing their acts on the street.
Monday, August 3, 1981
Walked down Fifth Avenue and when I walked into a record store they had
on “Heroin” from the Velvet Underground’s first album, the one I produced
and did the cover for. I don’t know if they saw me coming and then put it on
quickly or if it was already on. It was so strange to hear Lou singing those
songs and the music still sounds so good. It brought me back. Then they
asked me to sign the album. It’s still the original cover with the banana that
you can peel the skin off. Does MGM keep reissuing it? I never got any
money at all from that record.
Tuesday, August 4, 1981
The Herreras were back from the royal wedding and they invited me to
dinner with Jerry Zipkin and said they’d call at 6:00. I said I’d go but I
knew I’d cancel because I’m so tired of elegant people, I just wanted to be
with some kids.
Then I ran out of Interviews and I was near John Reinhold’s so I stopped
in and we went into the McCreedy and Schreiber shoe store on 46th and
just sat there for an hour because it was air-conditioned. I decided that being
a shoe salesman is really a sexy job, sort of, even for a guy doing girl’s
shoes. Stopped in at Jean’s and looked at a watch.
Jon has gone off to California.
Wednesday, August 5, 1981
The Trumps came down. Donald Trump and his wife and two ladies who
work for him, I guess. Mrs. Trump is six months pregnant. I showed them
the paintings of the Trump Tower that I’d done. I don’t know why I did so
many, I did eight. In black and grey and silver which I thought would be so
chic for the lobby. But it was a mistake to do so many, I think it confused
them. Mr. Trump was very upset that it wasn’t color-coordinated. They have
Angelo Donghia doing the decorating so they’re going to come down with
swatches of material so I can do the paintings to match the pinks and
oranges. I think Trump’s sort of cheap, though, I get that feeling. And Marc
Balet who set up the whole thing was sort of shocked. But maybe Mrs.
Trump will think about a portrait because I let them see the portraits of
Lynn Wyatt behind the building paintings, so maybe they’ll get the idea.
Jon called from Hollywood.
Thursday, August 6, 1981
It was my birthday and I’d told everyone at the office that if they even
mentioned it they’d be fired. Brigid had wanted the day off but I was Mr.
Grump. I let everyone off five minutes early. And the funniest thing was
that in the morning Brigid went to the delicatessen and over the radio the
DJ said, “And happy birthday to Andy Warhol who’s sixty-four years old
today,” so she was laughing that they’d even added eleven years on.
John Reinhold sent me 500 carats of diamond dust for a present. It’s like
half a can of tomato soup-size. And he sent me twenty-seven roses.
Diamond dust can kill you. It’s a good way to murder somebody.
Got a call from Hollywood. Jon didn’t remember my birthday which
was great.
Saturday, August 8, 1981
Jane Holzer called and said that I should come over to 4 East 66th Street
where a kid who goes to Columbia Film School and a group of his friends
were filming an underground movie with expensive 3 5mm equipment. I
went over and got depressed because here it was twenty years after my
underground movies and here were young, pretty, rich kids—even richer
and in bigger apartments than the kids who’d been in my movies. And we
could hear them saying that they didn’t want the old people in front. I got
sort of depressed and left.
Monday, August 10, 1981
I had to photograph the Halston and Galanos things for The Los Angeles
Times. Jon picked me up and we went to Halston’s. Halston had his limo
waiting but Liza was late. He was on the phone with Liz Taylor and she
called him an asshole so he called her an asshole and he said that her
asshole was bigger than his and that I should take pictures to prove it. It was
funny hearing them talk like this, that’s how they talk to each other.
Went to the Olympic Tower to the party. Hope Lange was there with
John Springer. And Christopher had just told me that on Live at Five that
afternoon Hope Lange was on with Jack Cafferty and she said, “Wasn’t it
Andy Warhol who once said that everyone would be a celebrity for four
minutes?” And so John Springer brought that up and said that it was
actually ten minutes, and then Hope laughed and said that TV was making
life go by faster anyway. She was kind of great. Sort of matronly-looking
now.
Lauren Bacall and Harry Guardino were there. Marty Scorsese was there
with his wife Isabella Rossellini who’s modeling now. I wonder what Julia’s
doing. How can a Catholic keep getting married? Bobby De Niro came in
and I sent Pat Cleveland over because I know he likes black girls, but she
was drunk and scared him away. At 2:30 I left. I’d had champagne and now
I have a champagne headache, I really hate to drink.
Tuesday, August 11, 1981
Got my live-in contacts but I can’t read or draw in them. Do they have
bifocals you can wear with contacts? It’s so scary to wake up in the middle
of the night and be able to see.
Walked partway to the office (cab $3.50). I painted some backgrounds
for the Diana Ross portrait—I wonder what color I should make her—I
wonder if she wants to be black or white.
Then I went up to the Con Ed building that’s for sale on Madison, and it
turns out there’s three entrances—one on Madison, one on 32nd, and one on
33rd. It makes a T shape in the middle of the block. There was a bum with
no shoes sweeping up the sidewalk. They all hang around there, I guess
because nobody chases them away. We couldn’t get the doors open, though,
so we went to 22nd Street and Sixth Avenue to look at another building.
That one is $1.9. Then we went back to the office. In the awful heat.
Wednesday, August 12, 1981
I can’t face Donahue. It’s (laughs) Retired Gays this morning. Gay old
people at a summer camp.
I’m 115 pounds now, I can feel my nerves grating against my bones.
I went to a Chinese opera at Lincoln Center and Stella Adler gave a
speech. She’s in her eighties but she looks young like Angela Lansbury.
And she had the Chinese director’s name written on her hand and every
time she said the guy’s name, she had to look at her hand.
Thursday, August 13, 1981
Maura Moynihan was supposed to be getting me tickets to the opening of
her play, but somehow she got out of inviting me. She said her father was
going to be there and I think she was afraid of me being there with her
father.
I waited for Rupert to come in with the positives. I saw that in my
photographs that came back from the printer there were some personal
pictures of Rupert’s vacation in Jamaica. I guess he sends his own pictures
in to be developed with mine, but I’m not going to give them to him,
they’re pictures of him carrying on.
Jon went to the country for the whole weekend.
Saturday, August 15, 1981
I’d gained weight and gone up to 119, but I like the way I look better at 115
so I decided not to eat. Worked all afternoon on Greta Garbo and Mickey
Mouse and Diana Ross (Brownies $15).
Sunday, August 16, 1981
I walked to church. Cabbed down to meet Rupert at 1:00 ($5). I called Fred
in East Hampton and told him what a bad deal he’d made with Ron
Feldman, that I was with Leo Castelli and that I wasn’t supposed to be
having a show with Ron Feldman in the first place and that having such a
big show of mine would make his gallery famous, and that the pictures
were too big and too awful. Ron has me down for a show on September
18th or something. I did backgrounds for Superman and Dracula. I have to
do at least four a day to catch up.
At midnight I got a call from Jon, he said he’d done some work on the
script and so I went over to pick it up (cab $3). I was back home at 1:05.
Monday, August 17, 1981
At 11:30 I had an appointment to see the Con Ed building on 32nd and
Madison. It’s a beautiful building, but buying it would be like buying a
beautiful piece of art, this beautiful space. And it has a main big T-shaped
room that could be a great Interview office, but you can’t rent anything out.
It goes up five floors and there’s no heat, it’s just like one shell, but it’s so
perfectly beautiful. I could put in hot air and toilets and it would be an
artist’s space. But then I think about the building at 895 Broadway at 20th
Street and it’s just a normal substantial building, and it has five floors, all
rented, and then I’d have rent coming in, and we could get one of the floors
to move out for us. But this Con Ed one was like a fortress and the best
thing was eight pay phones in the corner newsstand where you could
(laughs) send people to make their calls.
Susan Blond called to invite me backstage to see Michael Jackson on
Tuesday and Wednesday and she wants me to get Liza Minnelli, but I
haven’t been able to. I’ll try again, though.
Bed at 12:30. Fell asleep, then woke up and had watermelon, then went
back to sleep.
Tuesday, August 18, 1981
It was a really beautiful day, the weather’s still good because of the fairy
hurricane. Dennis.
Picked up Jon, went to the St. Moritz to Allan Carr’s penthouse. He was
having a party for the two stars of Gallipoli, Mark Lee and Mel Gibson, and
then a screening of the movie afterwards.
Cabbed to Madison Square Garden ($5). Susan got us backstage and she
was screaming that Katharine Hepburn was backstage and that if I didn’t
hurry I wouldn’t have my picture taken with her, but I missed it all. Michael
Jackson introduced us to his brothers, they all said they wanted portraits.
Michael’s gotten so handsome since I saw him that time with Stephanie
Mills.
We went out to the audience and it was hard to get our seats. We had to
kick kids out of them. Michael’s show was maybe the best I’ve seen. He’s
such a good dancer, and he goes into a hole and comes out the other side in
a different outfit, I don’t know how he does it.
I was dropping Jon off and as we passed Columbus Circle I saw Mark
and Mel, the two stars of Gallipoli, alone, just sort of wandering, and it was
sad. Their party was over and they looked lost, like they didn’t have
anywhere else to go.
Thursday, August 20, 1981
I worked on the Wicked Witch and on Howdy Doody, and Rupert brought
Mickey and the Garbo and they look great, but I can just see the reviews, I
know they’re going to say, “How can it be twenty years later and he’s doing
this stuff again?” And we had to work on Ron Feldman to give us money,
and finally he said that when the paintings were finished, he would, and I
really can’t stand doing this show at Ron Feldman’s, it’s just publicity for
his gallery and he should be paying a lot more.
Marlon Jackson came down and he brought T-shirts and was so cute. He
was supposed to be coming to get a portrait, but he didn’t know how to
bring it up and I didn’t know either. We really want to get Michael on the
cover of Interview. Marlon looks like fifteen but then he said he has a wife
and three kids and she’s expecting another.
Monday, August 24, 1981
Debbie Harry’s Newsweek article came out and it was strange because the
article mentioned me about eight times, quoting from the Philosophy book
and saying that she worked at Max’s. And you know, Debbie isn’t really
interesting to talk to, but her interviews always come out right. It’s like they
did with me, they pick up the right one-liners, and the words sound good in
print. Debbie and Chris just bought a house on 72nd between Second and
Third, so they’re rolling in bucks.
Got two Gentleman’s Quarterlys ($5) because my picture was in it as a
model in the Barneys ad and I liked it a lot, it was exciting to see.
Jay’s great because he finally knows how to paint like I do so he helps
me out of some tight spots. Ronnie always does it so crude. I talked to Jon
who I think was avoiding me. I think he wanted to do something else in the
night and he didn’t want to work on the scripts, but he said I could pick one
of them up later on.
Brigid’s working on the Maura tapes and she thinks they’re interesting,
but I read them and I don’t. I think those kids take a lot of hallucinating
drugs—things like acid and magic mushrooms.
Wednesday, August 26, 1981
I’m just so undecided between those two buildings, the one on Madison and
33rd and the 895 Broadway one. Because the one on Madison is so great
and big and artistic, and it might be a goldmine, across from the Empire
State Building, but then it’d cost so much to fix it up and how would you do
it? But they do have a 12 percent mortgage we could get which would make
it good. But then this 895 one is practical, it’s $1.8 as opposed to the
Madison one which is $2, but you’d have floors renting and the income
coming in. I don’t know. And Fred’s in the same dilemma.
Thursday, August 27, 1981
There was a lunch for Sharon Hammond who’s now the Countess Sondes.
Lady Sharon said she has a Nautilus in her house and that we could use it.
It’s $20 an hour because a lady comes who shows you how to do it.
We decided to get the building at Madison and 32nd. So that put me in a
nervous state. I have to sign a letter and write a check and see what
happens.
Bob got Jon and me invited to Iris Love’s birthday party at Barbetta’s
(cab $3). It was in the garden. I ran into Pauline Trigere and she said she
still hadn’t made a dress for me. Iris was wearing a toga with a towel
around her head and Liz Smith was in a cowboy suit. Senator Ribicoff gave
a speech. Diana Vreeland was there with Fred and she said I looked like a
fourteen-year-old and she was thrilled about my modeling career. I met
Iris’s sister who has blonde hair now, she had a crush on me twenty years
ago, and now she’s divorced twice.
It started to rain and they kicked us out of the garden. Then it stopped
and they kicked us back in.
And I was rude to Henry Geldzahler. He was there trying to get me to
introduce him to someone, and I ignored him, I don’t know why—well, yes
I do, because Henry’s hurt me so many times that way, I just felt like it.
Friday, August 28, 1981
I called Jon fat but I didn’t really mean it.
Paramount was having a screening of Mommie Dearest (cab $6). Ara
was there with Russell Todd. So we saw the movie and it was absolutely
great. Faye was really good. Really. Oh this movie affected me so much.
Movies are really affecting me lately. What’s happening to me?
And you do root for Joan. Like when Louis B. Mayer just dumps her,
tells her she’s too old and to leave quietly. And then when Pepsi dumps her.
Oh gee, it was great. I think I identified with Joan, is what it is. Okay, so
then there was a light supper.
Then it was early so Jon and I walked up trendy Columbus Avenue and
somebody yelled “Gay boy” at me and that was funny. Then went home,
watched TV and took a sleeping pill and woke up at 9:00 feeling so
depressed and miserable. Oh God, I feel like I did when I first came to New
York. I’m going through the same things, being afraid to live alone and …
oh, what should I do? I’m down to 115 pounds, but that’s not the problem, it
really isn’t. I look better thin. I guess I should try not to think so much
about looks but I’m not thinking too much about looks. I never do. I don’t. I
like ugly people. I do. And anyway, ugly people are just as hard to get as
pretty people—they don’t want you, either.
Sunday, August 30, 1981—New York—Colorado
We called Jack Nicholson the minute we arrived at John and Kimiko’s
house and he said that he’d meet us the next day. And it was just like talking
in a movie, talking to Jack on the phone. It was so exciting. God, it was
exciting.
Then John Denver was coming over for dinner and we’d read all the
gossip papers—The Globe, The Star, The Enquirer, five of them—and we’d
read everything about John Denver going back to his wife and all of a
sudden the doorbell rang and there they were and we said we knew all
about them, that they didn’t have to talk. And they thought it was funny.
And they were adorable. I got drunk on champagne and later Fred accused
me of name-dropping every second. John Denver said he was going to take
me up on his private little airplane, he said he would fly us the next day to
where we were going—Fort Collins. He said that he knew all about me and
that people always tell him he looks like me.
Monday, August 31, 1981, Colorado
We called up Jack and he said he’d meet us in Aspen so we drove all the
way to Aspen and it was just so beautiful and a toy town.
We went to this restaurant where Jack met us with Lou Adler, and Jack
was just adorable. God, he just was adorable. The waitresses were adorable,
everybody was adorable. Bob complained later that Christopher was so
pushy, but I told him it’s good to be pushy because it’s the only way to get a
good picture, and not to worry about it.
I told Jack I loved Body Heat. Because he’s out here in the sticks and so
he doesn’t see anything. I said it was a real hot movie. He kept asking about
the girl, Kathleen Turner, and I said that she’d never be remembered. He
said she was no Jessica Lange, which she really isn’t. Then we said
goodbye to him and went back to the car.
We drove to the airport to John Denver’s plane but the weather was bad.
Then all of a sudden John Denver’s father appeared. So we got in this Lear
jet and his father flew it and we went up and down and up and down and we
arrived in Fort Collins and were met by all these kids and were taken to the
motel.
We bought a lot of Rolling Stones with Jim Morrison on the cover. He’s
literally selling more records dead than alive.
Had dinner with the president of Colorado State University whose name
is Chris Christoffersen, spelled with Cs. After dinner he took us to the
museum so we could see the show before anybody else did. In front of the
museum they have three cans that are about thirty feet high and they look
like big sculptures by Oldenburg, big handpainted Campbell’s Tomato Soup
Cans. One of the kids did them, I guess. And every room here at the motel
is cans with flowers in them, and I mean, I’m so tired of the Campbell’s
Soup Can I could throw up. But the show’s cute, it’s just in one room and
it’s all prints, and we stayed there about an hour then I got back and I took a
Valium and I couldn’t sleep.
Tuesday, September 1, 1981— Colorado
We had to get out at 10:30, I had to do four TV shows. Went to the campus
and I had to pose with a cow—they brought a cow from one of their
agriculture things. So I had to hug a cow, standing in front of the Soup
Cans. It was fun. And then I did all this TV. I was good, I could answer all
these dumb questions. They said that when Rauschenberg was there nobody
would come and that I’m the most famous artist in the world.
At the opening, we had to go into the show the back way. All these kids
pushing and shoving and I had to sit there. All I do is sign sign sign.
And the biggest shock was two hours later this girl comes up and says,
“Hi, it’s Eva, your niece.” And I didn’t know what to do with her. This is
Eva who lived in my house on 89th and Lex for a few months in ‘69 or ‘70,
taking care of my mother. She said, “I’ve been waiting two and a half hours
in line.” And I knew I was in Denver where my nephew ex-Father Paul is
and I didn’t call him, either. Eva just read it in the paper. I can’t face a
family, I guess.
I was signing signing signing and then a guy came with a big fat yellow
snake around his neck. He was so creepy, and he said, “Sign my snake,”
and Christopher freaked out and said, “No snakes! No snakes to be signed!”
So he said, “Sign my forehead.” So here’s this snake coming at me. So I put
an “X” on his forehead. Because I couldn’t write, I was just too nervous
with the snake. We had to go through another whole hour ordeal. It looked
like it would never be the end, but finally it was the end. So I guess there’s
always an end.
Wednesday, September 2, 1981—Colorado—New
York
The papers were full of me and my age. They all gave my age. That
school’s going to become one of the best schools because they’re really
intelligent. They had this course called something like “Wind Tunnel,” and
the professor puts models of big buildings into a tunnel and blows the air
through to see what happens to them. With all the wind pressure. He said
there were five very dangerous buildings in this country, but he wouldn’t
tell us which ones and I kept saying (laughs), “What about the Gulf +
Western?”
And so then we had to go to our next stop, a class where they collect
semen from a bull. And they brought the biggest bulls with flies on them
that you could ever imagine. They had this poor little animal—he had his
head stuck in a thing—and the guy said, “This is a steer, and when he was
young, other male steers would jump on him, he’s just one of these strange
animals that give off the wrong hormones.” And so as soon as they saw that
happening they pulled him out and segregated him, and now he’s being
used in this experiment to get fucked by a big bull. And there was a big bull
sitting there, waiting.
Christopher ran out of film and he was going nuts, he wanted to get the
big cock out. So they get the bull over and let him mount the steer and he
gives out some juice but they don’t want that juice. His cock is like a two-
foot pencil. It’s pointed. So the guy said, “Wait, I have to get the artificial
vagina.” So he ran in and got the glove and everything, and then the bull
mounted again and he ejaculated really fast and the whole thing was over.
Then we went into the office and watched while the guy took the sperm out
of the artificial vagina.
All of us slept on the way to the airport for some reason except Chris, he
said he was going to spend the night in Denver and go to the Baths.
Watching the bull must have got him really hot.
Got to New York, our driver was waiting for us. Dropped Fred off and
he gave me my underwear which was in his bag, then dropped Bob off.
Tipped the driver ($40).
Bob had the best news because he got the job he tried out for on the new
Paramount TV show, Entertainment Tonight. Barry Diller called him up and
told him.
Sunday, September 13, 1981
Worked all afternoon till Christopher brought up some photographs. He said
he was in love and I had to tell him that he had no right to do that because
he’s already “married.” He’s fallen in love with Mark from Colorado. He
fell in love just because he didn’t have enough to do, and after he left Peter
called and I told Peter that we’d have to cut off Christopher’s purse strings
because then he’d have to work harder because all he does now is sit around
and think about romance. And isn’t that what families always do—cut off
the purse strings? So he’ll have to go back into the darkroom and start
printing for other customers again because he has it too easy, he makes so
much money printing pictures up for me.
And I’m so nervous about my show. The Rolling Stones just got
glowing reviews—and what they did was just a repeat of their old album.
And here I am doing a show, repeating all the old Pop images….
I picked up the phone and it was my first superstar, Naomi Levine, and
she was saying, “Oh I hear you’re having a show. I’m going to come and
see you.” I said, “Oh, I’m not going to be there. Oh, am I having a show?
Really? Where?” The dialogue was straight from the sixties. I heard myself
going, “Oh really? Oh. Oh. Really? Oh.”
Tuesday, September 15, 1981
Ron Feldman was having a limo bring me down to the gallery, this is the
day of the opening. Jon said he had to go to a video convention but that
he’d try to come. John Reinhold was coming, and Wilson Kidde. And
Rupert had arrived at the office looking like he was my son or something.
Or like he was the artist. (laughs) A bow tie. White shirt. Blue blazer.
Bluejeans. And cowboy boots. And then when I stared at him because he
was dressed exactly like me, he got too embarrassed so he changed his bow
tie into a long one.
Got there and there were so many people, all young. Nobody over
twenty-one.
Chris got mad at me because he said he was really lonely and that I
wasn’t taking care of him, that I wasn’t taking him off to any parties, and I
told him I couldn’t that night because Halston had invited me to dinner and
I couldn’t bring anybody and that was that. Chris was with the Loud girl
and he just got mad and rode off in his car.
Went to Halston’s for dinner before the reopening of Studio 54. Halston
had wanted to give a party for Steve before the reopening, but Steve told
him Calvin was already giving him one. So then Halston asked Steve to
choose between him and Calvin—Steve chose Calvin. But then Calvin
smoothed things over by calling Halston to invite him. Went in Halston’s
car and arrived to the Sovereign and went up to Calvin’s penthouse and
everybody was either famous or beautiful—Brooke Shields and seventy-
five other models, and Jack Nicholson was there.
And Godunov was there, he came over and he looked so beautiful and
sexy and he’s just changed his whole personality, he’s so free and talkative
now. Then we went to Studio 54 and the street was just mobbed like I’ve
never seen it, and it made my art opening look like it’d been deserted. And
Calvin took Brooke. It was so jammed they must have made a fortune at
$25 a head. Went to leave at quarter to 3:00. It took us fifteen minutes to get
out of the place.
Oh, and I forgot to say that Truman called on Monday and his voice—I
didn’t even know it was him on the phone. He was saying cuckoo things,
like that he’d died twice and that his brain had stopped for thirty-two
seconds so that’s what he was going to call his next book—Thirty-two
Seconds. Then the next day, Tuesday, at about 6:30, he collapsed in his
lobby and all the newspapers and TV reporters rushed over to U.N. Plaza.
He was taken to the hospital and it was front-page news, it got the cover of
the Post and everything, and so I think he must have gotten the press that
we were supposed to get at the Feldman Gallery. Because the TV people
never came.
Wednesday, September 16, 1981
Bob said he was closer to getting Mrs. Reagan to do an interview, but I
think she’s too old and it’s old-fashioned. We should have younger people.
What is there to ask her? About her movie career? Oh it’ll never happen
anyway. It started to rain and I got an umbrella ($5).
Thursday, September 17, 1981
The weather was rainy, walked around with Interviews and then went to Dr.
Cott, who Ina Ginsburg said knew about nutrition, on 38th and Third, a big
new building (cab $4.50). He was in 2-D and he had two secretaries. He
looked like a Hollywood doctor. Wrinkled, but healthy-looking, young,
white curly hair. Jewish. And he was like a psychiatrist, he asked me
questions about my life and nodded and jotted things down. I told him I was
born in 1931. Look, they don’t know, it doesn’t matter. And before I told
him that I lost my pigment and hair when I was young, he looked at my hair
(laughs) and said, “I hope you don’t mind cutting off some of your hair for
a check on it.” So I told him I was there because of pimples because I want
to model. We talked about vitamins and he told me all vitamins are
chemicals and that vitamin C is made from corn. It took an hour and he
prescribed so many medicines, like tryptophan because I said I couldn’t
sleep. And I told him I’d taken that and that it made me feel so peculiar, and
he said, “Well, then just take one.” And he told me that a fresh apple is the
best thing to have before bed, because it has some sleeping powder in it.
And I told him that I’d read that a turkey sandwich and a glass of milk was
the best thing, and he said that was, too. And he told me to eat a lot of
bananas because I told him I couldn’t remember things or something.
Walked with Bob over to Barneys for the opening of the new top floor
that that Peter Marino designed, and it’s nice up there—little shops where
they sell dishrags and jellies and things. We went to the Armani room for
lunch. Gene Pressman, the son of the owner, told me I could get a discount
on anything because of the ads I’m modeling in for them.
Friday, September 18, 1981
I had lunch with Chris. His new boyfriend’s back in Colorado and Peter’s
on the Cape. Chris sits there with a magnifying glass looking at the eyes of
his new boyfriend in the photographs he took. On a contact sheet.
Worked on the Andrew Carnegie portrait for Carnegie-Mellon. Jon was
going off to Cincinnati to a Ragtime sneak, and then to someplace like
South Carolina for the same thing. The reopening party at Studio 54 got
absolutely no publicity. The Entertainment Tonight people had come but
hadn’t seen any celebrities there. But actually there were low-key stars like
the B-52s there and—oh did I say that Tony Curtis came up to me and said
that his new career was doing collages?
Sunday, September 20, 1981
Cab to Mortimer’s for the dinner Nan Kempner was having for Ungaro
($3). I said to Diana Vreeland, “Have you seen Mommie Dearest?” And she
said, “Have I seen it?! That was my life! That was the closest thing to me
when I get mad, I really tear into people and that’s not entertainment!” Two
hours into the dinner I could hear Fred’s voice so loud sounding like Diana.
I call him “Dr. Hyde and Mrs. Vreeland” when he drinks.
Tuesday, September 22, 1981
I’d gotten up really early so I wouldn’t be late for my appointment with
Nelson Lyon at the Saturday Night Live place. Cabbed to 30 Rockefeller
Center ($4.50). Had trouble because the 6’ blonde girl downstairs didn’t
know who Nelson was, didn’t know who I was, and didn’t know what
Saturday Night Live was. She was very beautiful but really dumb. So finally
I got there. We met in this big office with the producer and the director, Jean
Doumanian. They wanted me to do something one week, but I told them
that if I couldn’t be a regular I wouldn’t do it. Nelson thinks I should do
something political.
And then the meeting ended Hollywood-style—that’s where the
meeting’s suddenly over and they ignore you and talk about other things.
They don’t say, “Thank you, it was nice of you to come.” Suddenly they
just drop you, only you’re still sitting there, so it’s like you’re invisible. It’s
kind of great.
Then afterwards Nelson and I went downstairs in the elevator and I was
telling him about the beautiful 6’ blonde girl who didn’t know who he was
or me either, and he made fun of how I always get things wrong—he said it
was probably a 2’ black girl down there, and then we got downstairs and by
then it (laughs) was a black girl. So we were really laughing and I said no
no no, that it really had been a big blonde before.
Wednesday, September 23, 1981
I had to meet Peter Brant for lunch at the office. Also there was a woman
who’d called me, she brought a portrait back because a little girl threw an
apple at it and I have to fix it. So Peter Brant came and he was just awful.
He picked out some prints, and now we’re all settled with him on the
money he invested in Bad and he never has to come back. Good.
Christopher picked me up and we went to my modeling job at Saks (cab
$7). Took Rupert with us and they thought he was a messenger. Two of
Halston’s models were there—Alma, who was nice, and a blonde one who
ignored me. These models are funny, I guess they think I’m taking their
jobs away by being a model.
Monday, September 28, 1981
Got up early and was still half an hour late for my Janet Sartin appointment.
And I noticed a pimple on Janet’s face so I questioned her about that.
Made phone calls to the office before I went to my exercise class at
Lady Sharon’s. When I got there she was still in bed. Had an hour of
exercises. I’m so tired from them that I really do sleep at night, and I get
hungry from them so I eat more, too.
The office was really busy. Lucio Amelio was there. Vincent was
working things out with the Saturday Night Live people: The deal is we’re
going to get $3,000 for the first week’s one-minute thing and if that goes
well we’ll do more. We have to send them some Philosophy books.
Tuesday, September 29, 1981
I got up early because I had a yoga class at 9:30. And I’m so surprised I
never took yoga years ago. It’s just so nothing, just sitting and stretching.
And that’s why I gave up Martha Graham years ago—in Pittsburgh I took a
class from one of her teachers who was married to an Indian.
And Nelson came down, he said he’d been up for forty-five hours, and
he was trying to do dialogue for my spot which we have to film on Friday
morning. He wanted me to talk about the old Saturday Night Live show. I
said I never watched it. Belushi’s staying at his apartment in Los Angeles.
Took my vitamins. Felt like I was flying all night.
Wednesday, September 30, 1981
Nelson came up with the script for Saturday Night Live and I was getting
cold feet about the thing.
I made an appointment to see Dr. Rees the plastic surgeon. I stopped
taking the vitamins and I feel much better.
Thursday, October 1, 1981
Got up early, still was late, got to Janet Sartin’s at 9:30. Then ran to yoga
class but since yoga is calming, I didn’t want to really rush, so I ran, but
calmly, but by then the girl had gone.
I was seeing Dr. Rees at 2:30. I called the office and told Brigid to meet
me at Tiffany’s and we would shop until my appointment.
Got to Dr. Rees’s on East 72nd Street and I had to fill out forms, and I
saw the doctor and he was dying to do my face. I told him what I really
wanted was a few mini-lifts, that I just wanted to go in for a little bit on
different days. But he said he’d have to do it all at once, that he would cut
all around the ear, and he showed me how it would look. He said I’d be
black and blue for a while and I’d have to stay in town for two weeks. So I
told him I’d think about it.
Cabbed to meet Don Munroe ($6.50). He and Vincent were setting up to
shoot me for our segment on Saturday Night Live. We did our lines and I
was terrible, I don’t think it’s funny—three reels, an hour and a half of
work. But then later Vincent said they really liked it and I asked if I had to
go down to do any more on it and he said no. I’m scared about this
Saturday Night Live thing. Jon thinks I shouldn’t be doing it, because if it’s
bad, so many people will see it, so I’m hoping they don’t use it after all.
Friday, October 2, 1981
Went over to my exercise class at Lady Sharon’s. Sharon doesn’t do the
class with me.
Diana Ross came at 3:00 and she loved all the portraits, she said, “Wrap
them up,” and they all fit in the limousine, and she had a check at Bob’s
place by 5:00. And she wants me to do the cover for her next album.
Saturday, October 3, 1981
Called Vincent to see if he’d heard anything about Saturday Night Live and
he said that he had, that yes, they were going to use it, that they were really
happy with it. They still didn’t have a guest host.
Jon picked me up in his car. Made a lot of phone calls trying to find the
new Maud Frizon shoe store ($.60). And then we found out it was on 57th
between Madison and Park (cabs $5, $6, $3, $4.50). Still we couldn’t find it
and there was a crowd of people in the street and I asked one of them if they
knew where the Maud Frizon store was and they said that that’s what the
big crowd was looking at. They said, “Cher’s in there.” So everyone was
looking in the store at Cher trying on shoes. So we went in and I was too
embarrassed to look at her. And Sonny Bono was there, too with his
girlfriend, Susie Coelho, who’s really beautiful.
And I guess these people just buy clothes and shoes all day, because
Rupert told me he saw Rod Stewart in Parachute buying a few thousand
dollars’ worth of clothes and reading Interview. And Sonny and Susie were
trying on shoes, and Sonny had on the exact same leather Armani jacket
that Jon had on, but his was in brown and Jon’s was in black. And the shoes
Jon liked they were out of, they said Rod Stewart had bought ten pairs the
day before.
So then we were leaving and a boy who worked there asked if we
wanted to go out the back door and then he said, “Cher said that she would
be honored if you did her portrait,” so that was great, and Jon said I should
go back inside, not let that slip through my fingers. So I did, and we talked,
and she’s at the Pierre.
Sunday, October 4, 1981
So many people must see Saturday Night Live, because instead of people on
the street saying, “There’s Andy Warhol the artist,” I heard, “There’s Andy
Warhol from Saturday Night Live!” They’d seen my first segment on it the
night before.
I read The New York Times. They still haven’t reviewed my Myths show.
They’re ignoring it. Roy has a show now at the Whitney. I haven’t seen it.
I’m sure it’s good, though, he’s my favorite painter after Rosenquist. Then
cabbed to Jon’s to work on making a play—a musical—out of the tape
transcripts. We now have enough dialogue but I wish I could think of a
strange story to use it in.
Monday, October 5, 1981
I had a fight on the phone with Ron Feldman, he’s so awful, he didn’t want
to take the whole series of Myths, he only wanted to take the specific
images that are selling the best and I thought he was just awful, and I
wound up yelling and I hate to yell on the phone.
Tuesday, October 6, 1981
So many people keep saying they saw me on Saturday Night Live. I guess
people do stay in, I don’t know, I’m surprised.
Thursday, October 8, 1981
I had a fight with Jon so I wasn’t taking his calls.
Rupert came up with some Dollar Signs, but they were looking like
Jasper Johnses, sort of. Vincent had gone up to Sotheby’s to the auction
where they had some of my portfolios and he bought them back. Some
Campbell’s Soup Cans and some Maos. But not the Marilyns because the
Marilyn prices have stayed up, they’re around $3 5,000 apiece now. Mrs.
Castelli’s having a prints show soon, so Vincent was bidding against
Castelli Graphics and I guess Leo was mad, but …
Nelson came down and wanted to work on the Saturday Night Live
thing. I think for my next show I’m going to paint and talk about painting.
Friday, October 9, 1981
I finally took a call from Jon and said we could talk about the script at Joe
Allen’s restaurant before going to see Nicholas Nickleby (tickets $200).
Paul Morrissey was at the office talking about the Montauk property—
about Halston and Lauren Hutton wanting to buy land, and he’s trying to
work out some things.
Leo Castelli came with his girlfriend Laura de Coppet and he was
drinking and they were hugging and kissing and I just can’t believe this old
man. This is the girl who gives Jackie Curtis money. Leo’s commissioning a
portrait of her.
Saturday, October 10, 1981
I wanted to see Duran Duran at the Savoy because their videotape was so
good, it’s called “Girls on Film.” When I got there the first band was still
on. Duran Duran are good-looking kids like Maxwell Caulfield. And then
afterwards they wanted to meet me so we went backstage and I told them
how great they were. They all wore lots of makeup but they had their
girlfriends with them from England, pretty girls, so I guess they’re all
straight, but it was hard to believe. We went to Studio 54 in their white limo
and Steve Rubell was really nice to them. He took them to the booth and
gave them drinks. Ran into old friends, met a bunch of new kids and got
home at 5:00 (cab $5).
Wednesday, October 14, 1981
Bob warned me that when we go to Washington to interview Nancy Reagan
for the cover I couldn’t ask her any “sex questions.” And I just couldn’t
believe him. I mean, I just couldn’t believe him. Did he think I was going to
sit there and ask her how often do they do it? And then Bob told me that I
look like a fool on the runway doing my modeling jobs. I told him I didn’t
care, and he said that he cared, that it made his job harder if I looked like a
fool. Worked till 7:00.
Thursday, October 15, 1981 — New York—
Washington, D.C.—New York
We were early getting to the White House, we got in and then Nancy
Reagan came in and we were in the same room. And a waiter brought in
four glasses of water. Doria was with us. We talked about drug
rehabilitation and it was boring. I made a couple of mistakes but I didn’t
care because I was still so mad at being told by Bob not to ask sex
questions. She had an assistant who sat there and took notes, and they said
they weren’t doing their own tape of the interview but I’m sure they were.
Bob had his tape recorder and I had mine. I took four pictures. Mrs. Reagan
gave Doria a piece of Tupperware, not wrapped or anything, and she gave
her three boxes of socks for Ron. Bob was telling Mrs. Reagan she was
such a good mother. He asked what they were doing for Christmas and she
said they were going to stay at the White House because nobody ever stays
at the White House. At 4:30 the interview was over. She and Doria talked
for about fifteen minutes while Bob and I waited to the side. Then we got a
cab to the airport.
Got to New York, called Jon at the office. Gave Doria $20 for the cab
after she dropped me. When I walked in the door the phone was ringing and
it was Brigid asking me what kind of tea Mrs. Reagan served us and then I
started thinking and I got madder. I mean, she could have put on the dog—
she could have done it in a good room, she could have used the good china!
I mean, this was for her daughter-in-law, she could have done something
really great for this interview but she didn’t. I got madder and madder
thinking about it.
Friday, October 16, 1981
I told Janet Sartin that Doria and I had just been down to Washington to
interview the First Lady and she said she’s just dying to do Nancy and the
president. She said she can stop his skin from sagging.
Brigid got me upset, she was transcribing the interview with Nancy
Reagan and she said it was awful, and so we went in and asked Doria
wasn’t it peculiar that we weren’t offered tea or anything and that we were
treated just like anybody, and Doria said she thought it was the secretary
that was really the awful one, that Nancy probably was going to do it
upstairs and then the secretary had her change it.
Monday, October 19, 1981
Had to go close on the building and we had to drink some champagne with
the people.
Thursday, October 29, 1981
Christopher is having his photo show out in California and it’s going to
highlight his photographs of me in drag, so just when we finally get Mrs.
Reagan this is going to be publicized, Time and Newsweek will probably
pick it up and my whole reputation will be ruined. Again. Talked to Jon in
L.A., he’ll be coming back on Saturday night.
Saturday, October 31, 1981
We went to the Village to see the fourth annual Village Halloween parade
and it was just great, so much fun. It started at 6:00 on the nose and it went
from Westbeth to Washington Square, and it was the funniest group of
people, one was dressed as a table and lamp.
Picked up Jon (cab $7.50), he was cutting holes out of a hanky to make a
mask. Went to Studio at 2:00 and it was the best party they’ve ever done.
They had girls with live snakes, and a haunted house and I didn’t see Steve
Rubell at all. Chris was a doctor and Peter was a nurse. Robin Williams was
there.
Sunday, November 1, 1981
Slept late, till 12:00. Went to meet Jon. Went to the laundromat on
Columbus with him to do his laundry.
Tuesday, November 3, 1981
It was Election Day so Jon had the day off but he’d lost his address book
and couldn’t remember my number so he couldn’t call.
Wednesday, November 4, 1981
Chris woke me at 7:15 to turn on the TV to the space shuttle, so I did and
they stopped it after thirty-one seconds. They had oil clogged in the valves
and so they’re not going up for a week at least.
Then we went to our new building on 33rd and Madison ($4). It was a
beautiful sunny day and on the way up all the buildings looked great in the
sunlight. Made two calls ($.20). We got to our building and it was just
sensational, so beautiful, you just can’t believe it. And the neighborhood has
everything, all coffee shops, all the homemade Puerto Rican kind of food
that Ronnie and Robyn like, and Jean DeNoyer is opening a new restaurant,
La Coupole, on 32nd Street, and the whole area is great. There’s a beautiful
hotel across the street with whores that they’re trying to get out. We went
into the building and the best thing is the roof terrace, it’s like a terrace for a
beautiful, glamorous apartment.
Monday, November 9, 1981
Got into black tie for the queen of Thailand dinner for the Save the Children
Fund. I didn’t wear a coat because I wanted to leave early so I could meet
Jon. Cabbed to the Waldorf ($4). I missed Imelda Marcos who they said had
been there, she’d crashed, she was staying at the hotel. And Paloma was
there talking with Clare Boothe Luce and Clare didn’t recognize me at first
but then she said, “You’re losing weight and why are you doing that?” so I
went through my modeling lines. She looks very old, but it’s like a young
person dressed in old drag, it’s a very strange look. The food was good, the
best dinner I’ve had there. The queen of Thailand was on the dais. I could
only think about her jewels.
Wednesday, November 18, 1981
I bought three National Lampoons because they parodied Interview. ($6)
Went to my modeling job for L’Uomo Vogue (cab $7) on West 21st
Street. Way Bandy was there and a hairdresser named Harry, an English kid,
just funny and cute, and Way was wonderful, we talked about health foods
and he doesn’t wear too much makeup for day. He looks very good, he’s
had a lot of facelifts and we talked about that. He goes to bed at 11:00 and
gets up at 5:00 and spends two and a half hours doing his yoga and
everything. Way and the hairdresser each get $1,000 a day so I’d like to hire
him twenty-five times a year to make me up for special occasions, but he
says he can only fit me in six times. And then they left and two other people
came to do me up punk—a black guy and a hairdresser named Mary Lou
Green. And they had a Blondie wig so I would look like a girl, and then
they made me up like Ronald Reagan, too.
Friday, November 20, 1981—New York—Toronto
U.S. and Canadian Customs are the worst. Conrad Black had sent a limo for
us, it took us to the Four Seasons Hotel and I had suite 2910 overlooking all
of Canada. I got cleaned up and dressed and we went to Mr. Black’s office.
It was a post-modern building, the kind with the big columns, and there was
an old-fashioned lady with her hair up at an old-fashioned switchboard.
Mr. Black had read Popism the night before, he’d done his homework,
and he reminded me of Peter Brant, but nicer. He was about thirty-seven,
and sort of heavy, very nice, and a nice fortune—they have mines and
supermarkets and newspapers.
Then I dressed for a dinner Mr. Black and his wife Lisa were giving for
me, at the museum. And Gaetana Enders’s husband, Tom, who’s the Under-
secretary of State for Latin American Affairs was going to be there with
Gaetana—he used to be the ambassador to Canada, and he’s 6’6” and
Gaetana’s 4’4”.
I called the office in New York and I got mad because I was trying to get
Jon invited to T.T. Wachtmeister’s party for the king of Sweden and they
said there wasn’t any more room.
We met Gaetana in the lobby at 7:00 and cabbed to the museum. They
had a little TV crew there, and we were putting down publicity until we
found out that Mr. Black owns the TV station. And they had a cardinal
there, who’s just had a stroke so half of him was there, only, and Mr. Black
had him saying grace. Bob was having a good time at this, finally. He’s
been so grouchy lately but the room full of billionaires perked him up.
So we’re at the dinner and they introduced me to the cardinal and he
said, “I hear you have a nephew who’s a priest,” and I said, “Oh yes, but he
just ran away with a Mexican nun.” And when I said that, Fred yanked me
away and was screaming at me how could I do that to the cardinal when he
was half-gone and there were only twenty cardinals in the world, and why
couldn’t I have just said, “Fine,” and let it go, and the cardinal could hear
Fred yelling at me and then they took him away and put him in a car, and he
rolled down the window and said, “Andy Warhol is such an honest person,
he could have lied to me and said his nephew was fine but instead he told
me the truth and I love his art and I know he goes to church every Sunday.”
And then I was given a tour of the Gauguin to Moore exhibition. Henry
Moore gave this museum all these plastic things, nobody knows why he
gave them so much. Really impressive. Like forty figures, gigantic. I mean,
my work looks like nothing compared to that stuff. Oh, I’m getting to hate
my—I must be—all I do is tour, everybody else works. I have to get back
and do something. I might be well-known, but I’m sure not turning out
good work. I’m not turning out anything.
I didn’t have that much to drink. Drinking does put on weight and I’ve
got to stop it.
Saturday, November 21, 1981—Toronto—New
York
Customs was disgusting again. Cabbed into town ($20). We made it to the
office by 1:00. Finally T.T. Wachtmeister said I could bring Jon to the
dinner for the king of Sweden at Reginette’s. So then I called him and he
wasn’t sure if he wanted to go. I was getting nervous and drinking coffee—I
had an opening at 4:00, a retrospective of prints, down at the Castelli
Gallery. Leo called and asked when I was coming down, he wanted to show
me a photograph of me by Hans Namuth, which did turn out to be beautiful.
I hated the show. And Ethel Scull said, “Do you remember me?”
(laughs)
And Lester Persky invited me to his cocktail party before the king of
Sweden party, but I couldn’t go because the only way I could get Jon to
come to the king of Sweden dinner was by first taking him to Giorgio
Sant’Angelo’s surprise party for Marina Schiano.
Oh, and I’m forgetting the most glamorous thing of my opening. Warren
Beatty walked in with Diane Keaton and I made a faux pas by saying, “I
just read that article about you in Playgirl,” and they said, “Oh my God!”
and ran out. I don’t know if they were interested in buying art or if Diane
Keaton wanted to take pictures, but anyway they made quite an effort to
come to this crowded thing, so that was nice.
So later at Reginette’s I really liked dinner, it was fun. The cute girl next
to Jon was an Argentinian, a Ford model, and she was cute because she ate
the bread that I’d autographed. And (laughs) the king of Sweden was there.
Bob said that a few months ago Diana Ross’s P.R. guy wouldn’t say if she
would come or not to this dinner, that he (laughs) asked Bob, “Well who
else is going to be there besides you, Andy, and the king of Sweden?”
I got home and went to bed and the alarm went off at 3:30 and I was
scared and Aurora was there and we went around the house together
holding hands and it was a false alarm, we didn’t find the bogeyman.
Sunday, November 22, 1981
Decided to go up to see the Roy Lichtenstein show at the Whitney, and I
called Jon and asked him if he wanted to go. Walked up Madison (tickets
$4). Saw the show and it was great, I was so jealous.
Tuesday, November 24, 1981
Got to my exercise appointment at Lady Sharon’s by 9:50 and had a good
time, did a whole hour. The trainer, Lidija, was wearing Revlon Moondrops
lipstick, pink, and Chris had been telling me that my lips are too pale, so I
went to Bloomingdale’s right after paying her ($30) and got some lipstick
($3.75).
I worked, painted for a while, and then after Vincent had had time to set
up, went over to Larry Rivers’s where Vincent was videotaping (cab $5).
And Larry gave a good interview. It was weird, he said he had his eyes
lifted and that he’d had a scar removed, and I just couldn’t believe it, I said,
“Well then why didn’t you get your nose done?” And he said because it
would have changed his character! And Larry was talking about getting old
and I told him to just not think that way. He said he had to sleep with John
Bernard Myers to get shown in his gallery, and gee, he’s done so much, he
was Frank O’Hara’s boyfriend, too. Larry gave us a good video interview,
but now I have to do one for him in return. Larry’s strange, he’s sort of a
good artist but such a nutty person.
Then decided to have Thanksgiving dinner at home two days early
because all my friends are leaving town on Thanksgiving day. I told Jon and
Christopher and Peter to come at 8:00. Peter makes the best pies. And we
played Christmas tapes, and we overate. And then we went upstairs and
Chris pushed the furniture around and we played Charades.
And then around 10:30 we decided to go to Studio 54 for Bob’s party for
Sao, and we found a parking space and got there before Bob and Sao, and I
went on the dance floor and danced every dance and the reason I’ve now
just begun to dance is because I finally realized that nobody really notices
you. I mean, I watched Jon go out there and jump and bounce and I thought,
Well, I can do that, too. It’s one thing I’ve picked up from him, I might as
well get something out of it. So now I’ll be dancing. And then I heard that
Jed was there so I guess he saw me dancing. He could have gotten me
dancing, all those years, that’s something he could have done for me. And I
wasn’t drunk at all, either. I was just miserable because things don’t turn out
like you expect them to, I was in sort of a horrible mood. I had a sip of
champagne, that’s all. And then I danced with Gaetana and with Sao and
with PH, and I just never knew I could do it before.
Thursday, November 26, 1981
Well, got up, depressed, had a lonely day. No calls from Jon. Ate some Bill
Blass chocolates. Ate leftover turkey. I called Halston but got the wrong
number. Finally at a quarter to 6:00 I walked to Liza’s. It was really homey.
It was Liza and Mark Gero and his mother and father and uncle and three
brothers and a Polish girl and Halston and Victor Hugo.
The dinner was in the hallway with all my portraits of Liza. It looked
really beautiful. And I said to Mark, “I think I’ve seen this apartment in
some magazines,” and he said, “Yeah, Batman Comics.” He was funny. And
he’s the best-looking of the brothers. Liza got the cream. And I figured out
that the mother is, I think, Polish, so that’s why they have that big Polish-
Italian look. One of the brothers is a teacher at Harvard.
And I was really crazy, I was nutty, plus I was drinking good red wine
from the Napa Valley. I said, “So now that we’ve got the whole family here,
which one is the fairy?” And the Harvard one did a fairy voice and said,
“Mommy, which one’s the fairy?” It was funny. The mother is beautiful.
Martha Graham was there with her boyfriend Ron Protas and his
boyfriend.
Saturday, November 28, 1981
Worked all afternoon. The Du Pont twins called and invited me to Cornelia
Guest’s eighteenth birthday party that Nikki Haskell was giving for her at
Le Club. I said that I had a date with Peter and Christopher and they said to
bring them.
Then they talked me into going to the Underground, the disco on the
first floor of 860, which I never wanted to do. I went with Cornelia because
she wanted to be photographed with me, and Peter and Chris went
separately. We got there and I met the Mafia-looking guys and they were so
scary. Ethel Scull was there and she couldn’t believe I was dancing and
making a fool of myself, and so she invited me to her birthday party the
next night so I could make a fool of myself there, too, and I said yes but I
knew I wouldn’t go. The people who run the place brought out the Dom
Perignon for us. And Cornelia’s friends were so cute, so many cute girls in
jewelry, all eighteen. A juggler was juggling for Cornelia and he gave me
one of his juggles.
The Underground was doing very well when Studio 54 was closed but
now Studio’s open again….
Sunday, November 29, 1981
Fred was supposed to go to Jackie O.’s party for John-John but sixty-five
people arrived at his house and he couldn’t leave, and then it was Xenon,
the Underground, and Paul Garcia’s new place that he opened on 12th
Avenue and 25th Street. Oh, and there’s a new place downtown called
AM/PM. I saw in the paper that Caroline and her new boyfriend Edwin
Schlossberg went there the other night. And I remember our old friend
Roberta from the sixties who was the Supremes groupie who taught art at
Columbia saying, “Oh you’ve got to meet this absolutely brilliant boy,
Edwin Schlossberg, he’s so brilliant brilliant brilliant.” Caroline likes funny
people. He probably was babbling intellectually and she got fascinated, he
was probably saying strange peculiar quotations or something.
Monday, November 30, 1981
Earl McGrath was having a fiftieth birthday party at Trax and he was
nervous. John Belushi gave a speech, he said that Earl had given him a
helping hand—“not like that fucking Laurence Olivier who never did a
thing for me.” He was funny. I talked to Isabel Eberstadt who’s just finished
her novel, and it’s going to be hot hot hot, it really will be, I just know it.
Wednesday, December 2, 1981
Laura de Coppet called and I don’t know, she was telling me this song and
dance that one of my portraits of her that Leo commissioned had been
destroyed by a lover—cut into strips. And I said, “Well why are you telling
me this?” And she said, “Because it’s yours.” I said, “No, it’s yours.” And
she said, “Well, do you want me to send it up to you?” and I said, “No. You
figure it out with Leo and tell me.”
Sunday, December 6, 1981
I lost my contact lens and then found it an hour later on a piece of soap, it
looked like a bubble. And so I had one lifetime lens in and one overnight
lens in and, actually, I saw very well.
I picked up Jon and went to the Rainbow Room to get an award from
The Best magazine (cab $7). It was jammed with TVs and cameras. Lost
Jon in one second. Massimo Gargia, the man who started The Best, said that
since I was so late to accept, mine was the only blank award, it didn’t have
my name on it, and I said that was perfect. The award was crystal and
penis-shaped with a chain around it that looked like it was gold, and I asked
Ralph Destino the president of Cartier if it was gold—because it said
“Cartier” on it—and he (laughs) said, “Think of it as gold.”
Monday, December 7, 1981
I’m doing a fold-out page for Artforum. They asked me to, and I was
considering a fold-out drag queen or a fold-out advertisement for my
modeling career but decided on a dollar sign, since Leo already took an ad
out for it. And Leo called and said that the portrait of Laura really was
destroyed, and I just don’t know what to say to that. I’m not going to give
them a free replacement. If they want another one they’ll have to pay for it.
It’s not my problem, it’s their problem.
Fred was out all day helping Diana Vreeland because I guess she was
nervous about her show that’s opening at the Met.
Halston had ten of his models and six limos and so we all got in
different ones and it was fun. At the museum, Marisa Berenson was doing a
thing for Entertainment Tonight so we went into a room for photos. There
were lots of photographers there. Every snazzy lady in town—Brooke
Astor, Enid Haupt—everybody in glamorous dresses. And Raquel Welch
was really sweet, she’s so happy because she’s a hit in Woman of the Year.
The costume show was eighteenth-century clothes. The kind of dresses
with the wide wide skirts so you couldn’t fit through the doorways. What is
the reason for them? Was it to go to the bathroom and nobody would see
you? That’s what Patti LuPone told me once.
Oh, and I talked to Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., and that was fun, he’s really
handsome.
Tuesday, December 8, 1981
At lolas’s opening I met Werner Erhard who was with the Stassinopoulos
woman, and he’s so handsome! He’s so handsome! He should be a movie
star. And I hope his portrait comes through because then I’d get a lot of his
EST disciples, they’d all want portraits.
Friday, December 11, 1981
I went to my exercise class ($30) at Lady Sharon’s apartment. And Lidija
said that she heard from Sharon’s maid who wasn’t supposed to say
anything that Sharon might be about to evict us. So we’re just hoping that
she doesn’t decide to really tell us. Sharon’s in England now, but when I
rode down in the elevator with her the other day she didn’t seem happy. Or
maybe she wanted me to go out with her more. I don’t know. She’s putting
on weight.
Fred was invited to Mrs. Marcos’s house on 66th between Madison and
Fifth, the one she bought five years ago. She’s in town now giving lots of
parties in it. It’s on my street and we got there and it’s a house twice the size
of mine, and she had a Christmas tree on every floor and a disco on the top
floor, but there was no central heat so they had to put heaters in every
socket. And that’s when I remembered that I’d actually been getting the
Marcoses’ Con Ed bills at my house, with a notice saying they were going
to turn off the electricity if they didn’t pay the bill. It’s something about the
way the address was written, it would always come to me at 57 East 66th
and I opened them. The maid gave me a tour and it was funny, security
people and people in furs huddling around the heaters. Such rich people.
Such grand people. All in New York. What does it mean? It’s scary. It’s
really scary. Maybe they’re here because it’s Christmas, but oh it’s scary.
The Cristina Ford lady was there, so grand, and Imelda was dancing
with Van Cliburn. They were serving champagne like water. I heard that
Imee Marcos is seeing Lupo Rattazzi again. Said goodnight to Mrs. Marcos.
Then I walked home.
Saturday, December 12, 1981
Halston called and invited me to dinner for Jade Jagger. Brought Jade a
Dollar Sign painting. Bianca is trying to be a Communist, she’s a
Nicaraguan guerrilla now. Halston was funny, telling her how beautiful she
looked and how rich her clothes were, and I told her I’d just been to see
Mrs. Marcos and she said how could I, and I said that if the Marcos regime
fell it’d just be another Iran.
Steve Rubell was there and Ian came, and Ian is having an affair with
Jane Holzer, which I didn’t know about, but he thought I did so he was
talking as if I knew, trying to pump me about Jane. But he was after Bianca,
too, he wanted to drop her off. Calvin called a couple of times for Steve.
Calvin’s kind of great. He does anything he wants—he takes ads in
Interview and in WWD, and he goes to 54 and to Xenon—he doesn’t let
anyone push him around.
Bianca’s going down to testify about Nicaragua in Washington, I just
don’t know what she’s thinking she’s doing.
Sunday, December 13, 1981
Cabbed to Jon’s apartment but his fuse had blown and so we went out
looking for fuses because we wanted to work on scripts, and then cabbed
($4.50) to my place and watched Apocalypse Now which looked really good
on TV—and on a small screen Dennis wasn’t so bad and neither was
Marlon Brando. Jon left at 11:00.
Monday, December 14, 1981
I’m just starting to get a good body. I wish I’d started exercising when I was
young, I could have had a good body all my life.
It was snowing hard. I went in to Interview and stood there finding typos
in the Nancy Reagan issue. I just don’t see why there should be even one.
And it’s something people really notice. It’s like that secretary from
Interview saying she saw me in the laundromat on Columbus Avenue with
Jon doing his laundry. It stands out, so people remember it.
Tuesday, December 15, 1981
I took a Vibromycin and later at my beauty class I got nauseous, so I had a
cracker and water. It was raining out, really messy and wet. Met John
Reinhold and we went to our regular place which is called Think Thin. We
talked about designing jewelry.
And Bob is trying to find out who to have interview Farrah Fawcett.
Gore Vidal wouldn’t do it, he said, “I don’t do interviews—I give them.”
Bob Denison sent me this great cheese and bread from E.A.T., I’ve been
eating it. He told me that Fred made a scene at Donina Cicogna’s silver and
white party, but he wouldn’t tell me what it was—something about Pat
Buckley’s tits.
Wednesday, December 16, 1981
Got up early and went to Christie’s and passed out Interviews. They were
having an Indian jewelry exhibition and gee, that stuff is so expensive now.
I guess it was Ralph Lauren who drove the prices up to $15-30,000 a belt,
some of them.
Brigid was dyeing my surgical corsets for me, the ones I wear around
my stomach because of when I was shot. She does a beautiful job on them.
The colors are so glamorous, but it looks like no one will ever see them on
me—things aren’t progressing with Jon. We just work on scripts and that’s
it.
And as I was getting out of the cab, I tripped over myself because my
bag full of makeup was so heavy and at first I felt like a little kid, but then
after I thought about it I felt like an old man. And I scraped myself and I
was bleeding, but nobody saw me except the cabdriver and I pretended it
was nothing and skipped home.
Jon picked me up and we cabbed ($4) to 1600 Broadway to a screening
of Four Friends, which is about these kids in the sixties with a lot of plot
and subplots and it goes into hippie psychedelic times. It was like all those
bad movies that came out in ‘68 and ‘69. I thought it was as bad as Honky
Tonk Freeway but Jon got really emotional—he was crying all through the
movie. So I dropped him off at 10:30.
Watched a Chuck Norris kung-fu movie on TV. He’s not good-looking
but he’s really sexy.
Thursday, December 24, 1981
Steve Rubell wanted me to go to C.Z. Guest’s Christmas thing in Old
Westbury, but that would have meant an hour drive out there and an hour
back. I didn’t want to do anything difficult because I was so afraid I was
getting sick. I could feel it in my throat. Jon called from Massachusetts and
wanted to know what shirt size I wore. I was the only one home, so he had
to ask me. He said he’d call Halston’s at 10:00.
Got home and was too tired, had some brandy and got drunk by the time
I was supposed to go out. The dogs were with Jed, away for the holidays.
Walked over to Halston’s. Victor had called and given me the list of people
who were going to be there, about twenty names, and I’d made up some
packages to give them—snot rags with dollar signs. And a piece of
sculpture.
Liza was there, though, and Victor hadn’t said she would be and I didn’t
have anything for her, so I said I’d give her a Martha, and she was thrilled,
she threw up her arms. Liza’d been to Harlem all day to visit the sick kids
in the hospital. And that’s the best thing to do. Jane Holzer and I said we’d
do it next year. Liza’s here seeing her father, he’s dying of heart problems.
Pat Cleveland was there, just over hepatitis, and she kissed everybody and
my resistance is so low I think I’ll get it. Jane told me finally that she’s
madly in love with Ian Schrager and I said I didn’t want to hear it because
I’d only tell her negative things and then she’d only report them to him who
I do really like. I told her that she should just get his business sense from
him and that’s it.
She’d had gold dimes made up, had them cast, and she gave one to me.
She had them made up for Ian because he always puts dimes in his mouth
for phone calls. It’s such a clever gift.
At 3:00 Jane dropped me off and I took aspirin and packed and took a
sleeping pill.
Sunday, December 27, 1981—Denver—Aspen,
Colorado
In Denver we got two cute pilots in a jet, they had suits on, and we had cold
lobster and drinks and the ride was fun and beautiful and the snow was very
beautiful, and then as we were about to land in Grand Junction they said
they had good news, that the storm had stopped and we could be the first
plane to be able to land in Aspen ($100 X 2 = $200). The rented house was
just beautiful, clean and with a picture window on the mountains. Jane
Holzer called and she’s not coming until after New Year’s.
My cold was starting up again, it had completely gone away the day
before. But at least I wasn’t having an altitude problem. I was taking
antihistamines and Aspergum and cough medicine. Peter made us mashed
potatoes and salad for dinner. We watched Shampoo on TV, then went to
bed.
Tuesday, December 29, 1981—Aspen
Got up early, and by then I did have an altitude problem. Dropped Peter and
Jon on the slopes, went with Christopher to get groceries, spent a couple of
hours in town. Met all these people who were surprised seeing me and I
didn’t recognize them in their ski clothes. Tatum O’Neal came over and she
looked so cute and beautiful in her white ski suit.
And then it was such a pretty day, the sun was out and it was cold for
Aspen but it was the best snow they’ve ever had.
We went to Angelo’s Restaurant for dinner and Sonny Bono came over
and said he was getting married on New Year’s Eve to his girlfriend Susie
and he invited me to his wedding party at Cathy Lee Crosby’s, and also he
was having a shower later that night for Susie at Andre’s, which is the only
disco in town.
When we got to Andre’s Cathy Lee didn’t know who I was at first. It
was like trying to get into Studio 54, and I just don’t think any of those
things are worth it. So I just said to Chris, “I just can’t stand it, let’s get out
of here.”
Wednesday, December 30, 1981—Aspen
Chris and I decided to have just simple baby instructors on the baby slope
so that we could work our way up. We had a private instructor from 1:30 to
3:30 and the course was called “Powder Pandas” and it was on Buttermilk.
We did about two hours of zigzagging and going up the handrail and you
just sort of sit on the thing and go up the whole hill, and it was really fun. It
was easy, all two-year-olds skiing with me, and if you start when you’re
two you can really go with the waves and relax and become a good skier,
but I was so tense. I fell three times. But it was fun, the idea of falling was
more fun than skiing because you fall right in the snow and it’s really fun.
Saw Caroline Kennedy with the Schlossberg boy. They’re madly in love
and they were going off to parties.
Thursday, December 31, 1981—Aspen
We went to Sonny’s wedding. We finally found the beautiful church and we
had to stand, the ceremony was already on, and they were singing beautiful
songs, and the preacher finally came on and said, “I pronounce you, Sonny
and Cherie”—he said “Cherie” instead of “Susie”—and the whole audience
gasped and she said, “My name isn’t Cher-ie, it’s Susie,” and the preacher
got very upset, he said that he just knew he was going to do that, and then
he said a million times, “Sonny and Susie, Sonny and Susie” till the end of
the ceremony. They had lighted candles and Chastity was the flower girl,
she was kind of tall. And it was really beautiful, it was snowing outside and
everybody had candles and Susie was all in white and Sonny was crying.
We were invited to Cathy Lee Crosby’s party for Sonny. But we went off to
one of the halls where Jimmy Buffett and his wife were hosting a New
Year’s Eve party.
We found a corner where Lisa Taylor was and I made a faux pas and
asked her about John McEnroe and she said she just broke up with him and
she was drowning herself in drink. She was drinking tequila and Coke in a
shot glass, she said it goes right to your head and you get drunk really fast.
And then I said hello to Jack Nicholson and Anjelica. And in yesterday’s
paper Margaret Trudeau talked about her affair with Jack, and her new book
is out where she talks about her cowboy Tom Sullivan and she doesn’t even
say that he died.
Cathy Lee Crosby’s party was starting at 11:30 but I didn’t want to be in
anybody’s house at the twelve o’clock thing, so while we were walking we
just decided to stay in the square, we let all the other people go ahead and
we just stood in the square because it was like a small version of Times
Square. It was all the Aspen kids all drunk, sort of drooling and falling and
blowing horns and stuff like that in the middle of town, and it was sort of
cute, it looked like La Boheme, it looked more fake than the real thing.
Friday, January 1, 1982—Aspen
Decided to go to the hospital to see if my arm was broken from when I’d
fallen the day before. Went to the emergency room, they were really nice
there. One girl was really fun, out of Pittsburgh or my grade school or
something and then while we were there I got X-rayed and while we were
waiting for the X-rays they put you in these little cubicles made of
bedspreads and then they wheeled a man in who said, “Am I in heaven?”
and he said he couldn’t feel anything below his neck, and they all got scared
and they wheeled him under the X-ray machine. And there were all these
kids with bones coming out of their legs and it scared me so much.
And then it was four o’clock and Jon had to meet someone named Dawn
Steel from Paramount Pictures at the United City Bank.
Went to Barbi Benton’s for dinner and Zev Bufman, the Little Foxes
producer, was there. And Mrs. Bufman, who I could see would never let
him have an affair with Elizabeth Taylor. Barbi gave us a tour of the house
and it’s sort of like the Watts Tower, all built by hand—the architect would
go to the stream and get the marble to build the steps. It was sort of nice,
but not with the things that Barbi put up.
Monday, January 4, 1982—Aspen—New York
Got back, called the office, I was going to go downtown to work but it was
already 5:30. Vincent was going to his Lamaze class. Stayed in and
unpacked.
I dropped a ring in the sink and it stuck there. Picked up Jon and went to
Halston’s. It was only Steve Rubell and Victor, and Halston said that two
days ago he bought 100 acres in Montauk with Lauren Hutton. So now
there won’t be condominiums between Dick Cavett’s place and ours. And
Bianca wants to rent Montauk while Halston builds. My arm was still
hurting.
Tuesday, January 5, 1982
Got up early, still felt like Aspen. Sort of dizzy and floating as if I was on an
LSD trip, which I’ve never been. My lungs are still funny from being shot, I
guess.
Got a lot of invitations to dinner. Talked to Jon and he thought we
should work on scripts.
He came over and we worked and he left at 9:30. Watched TV, and my
arm was really aching and that’s when I took an aspirin and the last news on
TV was that Hans Conried just died.
Wednesday, January 6, 1982
Heiner Friedrich was having a tea party at his place on 82nd Street. You
were supposed to take your shoes off but I didn’t and I should have. And the
driver who drove us was the best driver I’ve ever had, named Manny, he
was sort of black. Fred told me I couldn’t say anything to Heiner about
loaning us money for the building. But Heiner’s having another party next
week and then I will. Because he’s taking John Chamberlain’s loft and
making a museum for him there, and I think why doesn’t he rent the
Madison Avenue part of our new building and have the museum for me
there? I would ask him but people only want to do things if they think of it
themselves, so I’ll just hint and hint. I did suggest that he open a bar in the
building and he said no, no, that Moslems don’t drink—he and Philippa are
Moslems now that they’re Whirling Dervishes.
Saturday, January 9, 1982
Another big opening of mine—a double—Dollar Signs at the Castelli on
Greene Street and Reversals at the Castelli on West Broadway.
Bob Rauschenberg was at the opening and Joseph Beuys and Hans
Namuth and it was like a busy sixties day. And I forget how attractive artists
are. They really are attractive.
The stairs were the best place to stand to see people and sign things.
Then went over to the Greene Street thing, and the heavyweights were
there. Rosenquist didn’t know what to say so he told me he loved the
photograph of me.
Sunday, January 10, 1982
Not one phone call. That’s what happens after being a big star the night
before, not one person called all morning. Finally at 12:45 the phone rang,
it was my brother. Brigid called and she said that she’d gone to the Chelsea
to see Viva who’d just had her baby.
Called Jon and nobody answered. Jane Holzer called and said she was in
Washington with the guy who wrote Shampoo and Chinatown, Robert
Towne. His new movie, Personal Best, is about to come out, it’s about dyke
athletes. They were coming up to New York later and she wanted to have
dinner. And she said, “Bring your tape because he’s so fascinating, so
fascinating.” I don’t know what she was trying to do.
At 10:20 I went to Elaine’s (cab $4) and Elaine’s fat again! So fat. After
all she went through getting thin. Jane was already there with Robert Towne
and they had the good table. For the first three hours I hated him. In fact I
may still hate him, I’m not sure. He was just that California way. All those
words that I hate like “asshole” and “bimbo.” “Bimbo” drives me up a wall.
He didn’t want to tape, he said, because he’s been working so hard on “my
baby,” but he said, “If you want me to, Jane, I’ll do it.”
His wife Julie was there and she gave up acting for real estate. She’s
good-looking but just almost at the stage where he’ll trade her in. Just
almost over the hill. And we were there the whole time and Jane didn’t even
tell me until she dropped me off that this was John Payne’s daughter! I
would have had a great time!
Robert Towne talked about “Warren” a lot so I said I’d just seen “Jack”
in Aspen. Oh and in the beginning he quoted my line to me about “in the
future everyone will be famous for fifteen minutes,” only he said “ten
minutes” and then it was funny because Mark Rydell the director came over
fifteen minutes later and quoted me the same line and he said fifteen
minutes and then he and Robert Towne argued over the time and I had to
agree with Towne because I was with him. But what does this mean, that
they both quoted it? So then I asked him if he’d like to buy the quote for a
title and he said (laughs), “No, I like one-word titles best.” So then I told
him I’d sell him the title “THE” that Tennessee Williams once sold me. He
laughed. I thought Jane was paying for dinner but then he did and I was
embarrassed. He had a limo and we dropped him at the Carlyle and then
Jane dropped me and she told me that she had had an affair with him before
he married Julie.
Friday, January 15, 1982
Got a call from Jon and he was coming in from Los Angeles and we were
going to the preview at Radio City of the new Coppola movie. But then his
plane was really late and he didn’t make it.
The movie, One from the Heart, was boring, stinkeroo, and Frederic
Forrest is one of my favorite actors and he’d gained about twenty pounds
for the role. It was pretty, but looks aren’t enough, it’s not going to make it.
And I was putting the movie down afterward but then I saw the press
coming at me, People magazine and Time, and so I changed my tune and
told them how much I loved it.
Saturday, January 30, 1982
Jon picked me up and we cabbed to Sheridan Square to see Harvey
Fierstein’s Torch Song Trilogy (tickets $3 5, cab $7). It was at the Sheridan
Square place and the theater was one of those firetraps, and it was
embarrassing because there were nothing but boys going in, and so we went
around the block and then when a couple of girls went up to the box office,
we stood near them. The play was four hours long but it was really funny, it
had funny lines and everybody loved it, everybody laughed. Like the drag
queen said, “I’ve had so many names—Kitty Litter, Beef à la Mode….”
And when the play was over the usher said that Harvey Fierstein wanted
to see me. I’d always had it in the back of my head that somehow he was
somebody we knew vaguely, but I couldn’t remember, and then I met him
and he said, “Don’t you remember me? I was that 500-pound boy who was
in your play, Pork, and look at what I have here—a hit play!” And he’s
great, his voice got so low. He’s appealing and really talented—he wrote
and directed it and acts in it. I told him I’d try to get Interview to do a story
on him because he’s new talent.
Dropped Jon (magazines and newspapers $10, cab $6). Got to bed
around 1:00.
Monday, February 1, 1982
After three weeks of planning our lunch with Mayor Koch it was finally
going to happen today, then his father died, but they said he wants to
reschedule. And James Brady on Page Six was so mean, because he
reported that Mayor Koch had asked for all thirteen episodes of Brideshead
Revisited on tape, to imply that that must mean he has a “problem,” but it
was mean to put it in the paper when his father just died.
So since our lunch was cancelled, I went down to Odeon where Leo’s
workers were having a surprise party lunch for him. The ride took an hour
($10).
It was just star-studded. There was a different artist at every table—
Jasper Johns at one table, Robert Rauschenberg at another one, Dan Flavin
at another, Artschwager at another, Richard Serra. I sat at a table with James
Mayor and Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Lewis and I went over and said, “This is
the table I want to sit at because everybody here owes me money.” So Mrs.
Lewis gave me a dime.
I gave Leo underwear and a snot rag with dollar signs and he loved it, no
one else brought presents. And his wife Toiny was there and I had copies of
Interview with me and people told me to put it away because it had the
interview that showed Leo’s girlfriend Laura de Coppet and she and Leo
were still having an affair and people told me it’d caused a big fight—that
Leo was supposed to go to Rome and Toiny saw the interview and got so
mad she tore up his ticket and he had to stay in town an extra day. It was the
biggest fight ever, they said.
Hans Namuth took every artist to the bathroom to take pictures and I
decided to be a camp and I cuddled and felt up Rauschenberg and found out
he has a bad body.
Wednesday, February 3, 1982
Talked to Stuart Pivar on the phone and we decided to do something
together. So I went over to his place on West 67th and it was strange going
into that building because Jed lives there. And then we decided to walk over
to the auto show at the Coliseum (tickets $15). The DeLorean cars were the
cutest with the doors that open the other way. They were $40,000 and now
they’re $20,000.
Then Stuart dropped me at the office and I worked for a couple of hours on
Crosses and Valentines. Did that until 7:00. I was supposed to go out with
Jon but he had to work on his new loft that he just got. Chris called and he
and Peter were going to go to the reopening of Danceteria, which is now
going to be where Interferon was, but I decided not to.
Thursday, February 4, 1982
The Du Pont twins sent me an invitation to the opening of a new restaurant
called Jeanie’s in the old Tudor Hotel, and it was a Nikki Haskell event (cab
$4). Cornelia Guest came but I guess she’s been reading her newspaper
clippings so she only stayed a minute. The food was good and I ordered a
lot. And the steak arrived and Chris had his wrapped up and ready to take
home for breakfast before it was even served, practically, and they wanted
to know what was wrong.
And there was a party for Pia Zadora that Frank Sinatra was even
coming in for at Hisae that we could have gone to but Bob wouldn’t put her
on the cover, and she would have been just great to have on the cover, I just
love her. It’s like if Andrea “Whips” Feldman had been not crazy and had a
better nose. Pia’s like all those tiny girls we knew who always grabbed the
spotlight.
Friday, February 5, 1982
Was picked up by Jon to go to see Venom, on Broadway and 46th Street
(cab $5, tickets $10). Jon checked how it was doing with the manager, it
was a Paramount movie. It was about 60 percent filled.
Well, it was the audience that was really the horror show. In front of us
was like a family, a mother and then I think a couple of daughters with their
boyfriends, and they were eating and kissing and feeling up, and it was so
strange, so crude.
Then Puerto Ricans came in back of us and their feet were up and they
were smoking joints and there were all these big black bruisers lurking
everywhere.
Then when we left the theater I was nervous because we were on the
street where somebody’s been throwing rocks off buildings and killing
people. We went to Studio 54 where Liz Smith and a Lumet girl were
having a birthday party called I think “15 & 50.” I saw Sean McKeon
outside and I asked if he wanted to get in and he said yes, and so I got him
in, and I introduced him to Jon (hatcheck $2).
Saturday, February 6, 1982
I went to Jan Cowles’s place at 810 Fifth Avenue where she was having a
birthday party for her son Charlie. Gave Charlie a Dollar Sign painting and
Leo was there. Joe MacDonald was there, but I didn’t want to be near him
and talk to him because he just had gay cancer. I talked to his brother’s
wife.
At 11:00 cabbed to La Coupole ($5). Diana Ross was there with Patrice
Calmette and Iman and Bianca and Barry Diller and Steve Rubell. They
were just finishing dinner. I tried to make Barry Diller laugh because he
never does and everybody says it’s impossible, I asked him to dance but he
didn’t even crack a smile, so then I gave up and just told him that I loved
his movie Venom. Then he laughed.
Then Calvin Klein invited us to see his new apartment on 66th and
Central Park West (cab $6). Diana Ross went in a limo. The place is
beautiful, a duplex, with a gym and modernized windows and he did it
himself, all white and he has a stairway like Halston’s, wooden with no
banister, and it looks like a work of art and it’s very scary. And everything’s
in order and he collects the same things I do. Stieglitz’s pictures of Georgia
O’Keeffe. And Indian rugs and blonde tortoiseshell.
Monday, February 8, 1982
It was such a beautiful day that I decided I wanted to stay out until the sun
went down, it was so warm and sunny.
On TV was a movie The Day the Bubble Burst about the big crash of the
stock market in 1929 and Jon asked me if I was around for it. I said no.
Thursday, February 11, 1982
The Oscar nominations came out. And Faye didn’t get nominated for
Mommie Dearest. If that isn’t acting …
Sunday, February 14, 1982
Brigid’s in the hospital seeing about having her gallbladder out.
Marisa was having her wedding to Richard Golub at Halston’s office
place and she looked great in a pink tulle Halston sleeveless, and you see
how beautiful the dresses can really look when they’re on somebody like
that. They talked and laughed during the ceremony, that was sort of good,
the bride and groom. But he’s just another guy looking for a beautiful girl to
get him into the papers.
Cabbed back to pick up Chris to see Quest for Fire. And Rae Dawn
Chong was in it, the girl who was going with Owen Bayless who used to
work for Interview. She was naked in the movie, her role was that she
teaches mankind how to fuck in the normal position instead of doing it from
behind. The audience loved it. It was different. There was no dialogue.
Monday, February 15, 1982
Brigid said she was going to be operated on on Wednesday.
Walked to Columbus Avenue through the park with Jon and there was a
group of five big bruisers hanging around and when Jon runs he dances and
runs up telephone poles and swings on trees and he has his earphones on so
he didn’t hear it but this group applauded.
Wednesday, February 17, 1982
Brigid’s now going to be operated on on Friday morning at Roosevelt
Hospital. She said Lee Strasberg just died there and that Joanne
Woodward’s having a foot operation there.
Saturday, February 20, 1982
Got up early and had to meet Rupert. Brigid called and said she was
walking around. She said it was hard having the operation but she was glad
it was over now.
And Matt Dillon was having a birthday party, his eighteenth, at Studio
54. And that boy, Baird Jones, whose father runs People, was having all rich
preppies from Harvard and Columbia at a party at the Savoy. He’s turning
into Elsa Maxwell, giving parties at a different place every week, having all
the rich young preppies there. But Fred had a dinner I had to go to at his
place.
Sunday, February 21, 1982
Got up early, went to church.
Vincent called and said Shelly had an 8.2-pound baby girl and that the
birth was really easy and they named her Austin.
Monday, February 22, 1982
Got up early and went to exercise class. Brigid didn’t call but I knew that
she was okay because she checked in with the office. The Mayor Koch
lunch was still on for the next day at the office—I was surprised, because he
just announced he would run for governor, and I thought he’d break the
lunch date.
Jane Fonda called and I tried to call her back but didn’t get her so I
wondered all day what that was about. Then later Kate Jackson called and it
was fun to get these movie star calls. She said she was just calling to say
hello, and I told her I’d loved her movie, Making Love. And Chen from Liz
Taylor’s office called to invite me to Liz’s fiftieth birthday party in London
on Saturday but I think we’ll be in Belgium, it’s supposed to be a
smasheroo.
Tuesday, February 23, 1982
This was the day Mayor Koch was coming to lunch and Vincent was all
excited, and I kept saying he was going to cancel but he still hadn’t, and
then at 11:00 he called and cancelled. Vincent was really disappointed and
now I think Koch is awful. He could have come just for five minutes. I
mean, now I’m not going to vote for him. I know I don’t vote, but so what, I
mean, he’s still awful. And they were showing on the news the clips of him
in the past saying that he would never run for governor, so he just changed
his tune and that means he’s just like everybody else, he blows with the
wind.
Jane Fonda called again. She wants a free portrait of herself so she can
make posters from it to sell to raise money for her husband Tom Hayden’s
election campaign. Fred can’t decide if I should do it.
Wednesday, February 24, 1982
Victor called and said he wanted to see Victor/Victoria—he thinks it’s about
him. He said Halston would have dinner afterward just for the three of us.
Tuesday, March 2, 1982—Berlin
We went over to where Fassbinder was filming this movie called Querelle
by Genet. Brad Davis is the star of it. I got my picture taken with Brad and I
got his autograph on an ashtray for Jon. Met Fassbinder and he was wearing
outrageous clothes, the leopard-skin jodhpurs, and one of the guys standing
there said he thought Fassbinder had dressed up like that just for me
because he usually wears just plain black leather. He looked like a circus
trainer. And Brad Davis looks so strange, so delicate-looking. Much better
than he did on the cover of Interview.
Saturday, March 6, 1982—Paris
At 6:30 I had an opening at the Daniel Templon Gallery which I didn’t
know I was having but since I was in town I had to go to it. We got there
and it wasn’t so bad. It was the Dollar Signs and they looked pretty good.
We ran into Sao Schlumberger there, and she didn’t know I’d be in town.
She offered us a ride back to the hotel. She was cute, wearing leather and
foxtails. And then we invited lots of models to a party Lord Jermyn was
giving for me—he said it was a party for me but I think it was just a good
excuse. That was at 9:00. We picked up Chris and walked over.
Johnny Pigozzi told me that John Belushi died from an overdose.
Then the models said they had another party to take us to and Eric de
Rothschild said he wanted to come with us and that he had “a limo” outside,
but it turned out he just had a Volkswagen, and so about eight of us had to
fit into it. And we got to the party and it was really great, all these beautiful
models, one better than the other. Dancing to beautiful tunes, American,
smoking joints and cooking frankfurters with the windows open. Then the
police came and we got scared, everybody had to throw their dope away. It
was about 2:00 and we had to think about getting back and packing for our
trip back to New York.
Chris and I left and cabbed back to Fred’s apartment ($10).
Monday, March 8, 1982—New York
Victor gave me a call and said that he’d been with some Amsterdam boys
and that everybody’s afraid of getting the gay cancer so now they fuck with
their big toe. Now it’s (laughs) whoever has the biggest toe. He said, “It’s
wild.”
Saturday, March 13, 1982
Got up early to meet Jon. It started raining but it was warm. Decided we’d
go to the Met to see what the new Rockefeller Primitive Collection looked
like (cab $4, admission $7). Liz Holtzman was going in to see it, too, and
she was nice and charming, she came over to say hello. There were a lot of
photographs of the Michael Rockefeller boy who got eaten and a boy and a
girl were looking at one of them and I heard them say, “He looks like a
hippie.” The collection was great, it’s mostly African but some American
Indian and some Mexican and some South American and the installation
was terrific. Walked down from 83rd Street to 44th Street and stopped at
Barnes and Noble for reference books and some books that’ll help with
Interview, about Dorothy Kilgallen. Bob Bach was a good friend of hers. I
just ran into him recently. He’s the one who gave me the job as the hand
drawing on the weather map for about a week once on CBS, during the Will
Rogers, Jr. show in the fifties.
Monday, March 15, 1982
I got a letter from Billy Name and he wants me to give his photographs
from the original Factory on 47th Street to Jean Stein for her Edie book, and
I just hate her, I don’t want him to.
And Brigid was back at work and it was wonderful, she was radiant and
God, she really has a beautiful gallbladder scar, you can hardly see the
staple marks. We sat at the conference table for an hour and she told me
everything about the gallbladder attack and operation.
Tuesday, March 16, 1982
Paul Morrissey came down and he said that Jean Stein called him and read
him something that Rene Ricard had said about him in her Edie book, and
he told her that if she printed it he’d sue her, and she said she was going to
print it anyway. And Fred said I should be generous and find Billy’s
pictures and give them to Jean, but I said, “You know, Fred, I really don’t
mind spending all the time it would take to find the pictures, but I hear that
Jean has some rotten things about me in her book and so I just don’t want
to.” And he said, “Well if you feel that way, why don’t you just call her up
yourself and tell her that.” And so I told him he should, but then I did, I
called her and said, “You know, Jean, it’d take me a couple of afternoons to
find the pictures and I would do it, but I hear that you put me down in your
book.” And she said, “Oh well—well— well—I—I—it’s tape recorded, it’s
taped interviews.” And I said, “Oh so then other people put me down.” And
she goes, “Well I—I—didn’t—I didn’t really say that.” “Well then can you
send me a galley?” “Oh but all the galleys, I’ve given them all out.” “Well,
Jean, there’s always a Xerox machine.” “Well, I—I—but Billy wrote you
that wonderful letter.” “Yes, Billy wrote me that wonderful letter.”
I mean she’s just that tough type of girl—it’s like Brooke Hayward.
They’re just—Suzie Frankfurts. You know? They’re the same type. They
pretend to be so femme and they’re these tough —things. You know? And
the point is, none of the stuff she has in the book would bother me, I’m
sure, because I’m sure I’d think it’s fascinating. But the one thing that
bothers me is that she calls me a “social climber.” Isabel Eberstadt let that
slip out to me—and that’s—that’s just not true. Meeting rich kids wasn’t
anything to me, and being invited to her stupid parties. It bothers me
because it’s not true! The other things, I’m sure they’ll be fascinating,
whether they’re true or not, but the “social climbing” thing just isn’t true.
Oh but why does it bother me so much? I don’t know why, it just does, I
don’t know….
Oh and Paul said he saw Ondine and that he’s still traveling around the
country with a 16mm print of Chelsea Girls, showing it and giving lectures.
What is Ondine going to do when that print just disintegrates? Or if it gets
lost? Now that’s a play. And he’s teaching rich kids acting at some school
like Buckley so there’ll be this whole group of kids who’ll (laughs) act like
Ondine. Oh and I can just see it if Billy Name comes to New York. Oh he
won’t, he’s too shy, he won’t want us to see him fat. Oh but if he does—I
can just see it—he’ll come on the bus with a YMCA satchel. And Tom
Baker’s doing the same thing, he’s traveling around with a print of I, a Man.
And of course the big news of the day was that Claus von Bulow was
found guilty in Rhode Island. I guess he’ll appeal the verdict.
Wednesday, March 17, 1982
I was picked up by Jon at 8 P.M. and we went to Diane Von Furstenberg’s,
she was having a no-reason party but I think maybe it was for a rich
Indonesian. Bob was coming after dinner because he was going to a dinner
the Hales were giving for the attorney general.
Barbara Allen arrived, she said she was dropped off by Bill Paley and
she broke down after I kidded her about Peter Duchin and she told me she
was thinking of going back to Joe Allen. Because she was just fired by
Valentino. I didn’t know that. She said she was hurt, and they owed her
money, and she didn’t know why they fired her. And I asked her about Peter
Duchin and she said he was okay but that he’d been married for seventeen
years so he already had his habits. She said she was tired of having flings,
that she thought it might be time to buckle down and become a hostess. She
said that she could really make all the other girls jealous with the
entertaining she could do. There was Italian food and South American
drinks which I had and they were so strong.
Thursday, March 18, 1982
I read that Jean Stein’s book Edie got six figures from the Book-of-the-
Month Club, and I got an idea what to do about Billy Name and his pictures
—I think that if the book becomes big and Edie becomes a cult again, it
would be better for Billy to publish his own portfolio of Edie pictures, he
could make more doing it that way. I’ve got to write him a letter to tell him
that because I just don’t want to give the pictures to Jean. I mean, there’s
probably not even anything really bad about me in the book, but still I just
don’t want to.
It was a sunny cold day. Cabbed to the Mayflower Hotel ($6) to
interview Cher. She has a glamorous penthouse, like a two-story house on
top, and she wanted to do it in the bedroom. Her bed overlooks Central
Park. It was the fourth day she couldn’t eat, she couldn’t even swallow a
vitamin pill, and she was taking medicine for her throat and it made her face
break out and swell up and so she just drinks thick rich malteds so her
weight doesn’t go down too much.
She was great, she just said everything. She said she has two boyfriends
now, it just happened in one week, and she’s so happy because they’re real
men, and I brought up Ron Duguay, that we’d heard she’d been seeing him
and she said yes but that he was too interested in himself, he wasn’t for her.
She talked about anything except her father, she said that was a “No.”
And Cher said that when they called and told her she had the second
lead after Meryl Streep in the Karen Silkwood story she said she cried for
five hours because everything she’d done up to now has been shit, except
for the Come Back to the Five and Dime play, and she’s so happy.
Dropped Bob ($3.50) then was picked up by Jon and went to Ahmet
Ertegun’s house. Bob said it was just for “sandwiches” but the stupid butler,
he should have taken us upstairs, but he led us right in and everybody was
sitting down at dinner, and Mica and Ahmet had to get up.
Then we went to the Bottom Line in a bus to see Ahmet’s new act, Laura
Branigan, who was absolutely great.
Thursday, March 25, 1982
Lord Jermyn was giving a dinner for Fred at the Odeon (cab $8). It’s such a
long ride down there. Mick Jagger arrived and that was the big moment,
everybody in the place got excited. And Charlie Watts was with him. No
Jerry. They were on the loose. Julian Schnabel still wants to paint me, and
he says Saturday is the only day he can do it because he’s going away. He
gets $40,000 for a portrait, he’s the Jim Dine of the eighties. He copies
people’s work and he’s pushy and he’s a friend of Ronnie’s and he’s married
a rich girl already. I’m going to have to sit for it. He does it abstract,
anyway, but I guess I have to because he wants the inspiration.
I ordered sweetbreads which I hate so that I wouldn’t eat anything. Then
we went to John Samuels’s birthday party at his father’s big loft on
Broadway. Jane Holzer was talking about Ian Schrager, she’s so hot for him,
she said he’s the best sex, and we sat there talking till 2:00 so I missed Jon’s
call from California.
Friday, March 26, 1982
This was the night Radio City was having its fiftieth anniversary, and
Maura Moynihan had called a few times during the day so I thought she’d
be a good date, and we could continue the Music Hotel tapes—that’s what
my musical is called now—about her and her two boyfriends. So cabbed to
Radio City ($2). It was boring.
Maura called her boyfriends but they weren’t home. She’s working at
the Post now. She makes $100 a day and she works about three days a
week, reading things and editing them, I guess.
Saturday, March 27, 1982
Got a call from Jon in L.A., he was meeting Bob and Thomas Ammann out
there for lunch.
Sunday, March 28, 1982
Bob came back from California, I guess just for a jeans party in Tribeca at
some new cafe. He left Hollywood for that.
I ran into Mary Richardson and she said she was getting married to John
Samuels’s roommate from Harvard. Carlos Mavroleon. Well that’s what she
says but I remember he had a lisp. It’d be funny if he’s a straight person
with a lisp, but I don’t know.
Monday, March 29, 1982
Got up early, tried to make exercise class on time. Lidija told me that
Sharon said that the woman downstairs from her complained that we make
too much noise, and so that’s Sharon trying to tell us we can’t use the room
anymore, so I guess our days there are numbered.
Bob arranged dinner with the mayor. This is the dinner for Alice Neel’s
birthday that was scheduled for a month ago but then it was cancelled when
the mayor’s father died. And Polly Bergen was having an Academy Awards
party. And Lester Persky was having a dinner and party at Xenon to
(laughs) “honor the stars.”
Cabbed to Gracie Mansion ($6). It was all artists, sort of horrible, Henry
Geldzahler was there with Raymond, and Duane Hanson and Alice Neel
and Tom Armstrong were there. And everyone was complaining because the
Whitney hadn’t loaned the portrait that Alice Neel did of me for the dinner,
you have to give them a month’s notice and I said that that was just fine
with me, that it was a closet painting. And Alice had a nude of herself. Her
family was there. She turns these paintings out so fast. And the mayor was
nice, he made a cute speech, one-liners.
And then suddenly some creep got up and started a speech and it was
Stewart Mott and it was the oddest speech. He talked about how Alice Neel
had lived in the gutter for so long and didn’t have a pot to pee in and how
she lived on like 109th Street on the East Side and then on 105th Street on
the West Side and now, as a present to Alice, would the mayor please give
his views on nuclear war and disarmament. And the mayor said something
like, “Now listen here, we’re finished with your speech.”
Bob told the mayor we wanted him for the cover of Interview and the
mayor said, “After the election,” and Bob said, “Oh couldn’t it be before?”
but the mayor said, “After’ll be better.” So that was disappointing.
And did I ever say that my favorite person is Mrs. Senator Al D’Amato.
She actually talks like Judy Holliday. A real person who actually talks that
way.
Tuesday, March 30, 1982
Christopher wanted to go out looking for ideas. It was a beautiful day. We
went to Dubrow’s the cafeteria, this is in the garment center, and they have
all the red lights on the food so it all looks so good and everything is
oversized and it’s full of air. I thought it’d be cheap but it wasn’t ($20).
Then we only had time to do the bottom floor of Macy’s because Chris had
an appointment.
Talked to Jon, he was entertaining Barbara Allen out in LA, she’s out
there with John Samuels.
Then there was a gallery opening at the Sperone Westwater Gallery for
Cy Twombly. David Whitney and Sandro Chia and a couple of Italian artists
were there. Then we went to Odeon. I was next to Si Newhouse who talked
about the new Vanity Fair. He just bought a $800,000 Jasper Johns. I told
him I had some Warrens and Natalies that I would part with.
Saturday, April 3, 1982
I went to Pasta & Cheese and I took out a jar from the refrigerator there and
I dropped it and it hit the floor the right way to open it and the top came off
and marinara sauce went all over and all over me, it was so embarrassing.
They said not to worry about it. It’s never happened to me before.
We went down to Lafayette to Bob Rauschenberg’s party and on the way
we ran into Henry Post. Lady McCrady was there and she’s doing drawings
at the Hellfire Club which is a straight club where girls lead the men around
on leashes and things, and it’s piss and shit for straights.
Left there at 12:30. Went to Studio 54 where there was a birthday party
for the black star on Saturday Night Live who’s just signed to do a movie
with Paramount. Eddie Murphy. And he’s sort of handsome. The place was
jammed but with nobodies.
Sunday, April 4, 1982
Chris called and said he wanted to go to the P.S. 1 thing out in Queens. This
thing had gotten good writeups. And Henry Post’s live-in boyfriend was
exhibiting. The place was packed, and it reminded me of years ago, going to
places like Settlement House for these types of things. But years ago they
did have better people—Oldenburg and Whitman. Brooke Adams was
there, she was sweet, she said hi. And Princess Schleswig-Holstein—Pingle
—who we sort of let go from working at the office because she was such an
egghead, she was there and now she works at this place about one day a
week. We had her give us a tour.
And we saw Henry Post and looked at his boyfriend’s stuff which was
okay but it was just a copy of Jedd Garet. Jon really sees things in paintings
that I don’t see. Like, there was an abstract painting and he saw all these
figures of people painted over it. They were there but I hadn’t seen them
and paintings do have things to say, but I never looked at them that way.
There was a cocktail party that Henry was having at Anna Wintour’s
place where she lives with that Michael Stone.
And Henry put down the Rauschenberg party the day before, saying his
was going to be so grand, so chic. But I’m beginning to think that maybe
Henry doesn’t really know what an elegant party is like, that he hasn’t been
to many. Because this party—I mean, they didn’t even really have food. It
was 6:30 to 8:30 and it was broken-up crackers. It was on Broadway and
70th and 71st. And they had big trees and three maids, but so what, because
there was no food. And the reason I’m putting it down so much is because
Henry put down Rauschenberg’s so much, saying how much better his was
going to be. And Jed was there. I’d asked Henry if he was going to be, and
he said yes, that Jed was one of his best friends. And there were no stars.
Steve Rubell was there. But the strangest thing is that he was with the
prosecutor who sent him to jail! And I think Henry—who actually wrote the
article that started all the trouble—I think Henry got them together. I mean,
it’s like if somebody got you evicted from your apartment and then you
decided the next year to be friends with them. Or is it trying to get involved
with the guy who’s smart enough to get you, and getting him then involved
in what you do.
Monday, April 5, 1982
Worked all afternoon. The place suddenly got busy. I remembered I had
tickets that Susan Blond gave me to the rock kid who ate the heads off bats,
Ozzy Osbourne, but then Thomas Ammann called and invited me to dinner
at Mr. Chow’s and I gave the tickets away to Agosto. Cabbed to Mr. Chow’s
($7).
We talked art. Thomas told the story of the Picasso he bought from
Paulette Goddard, it cost $60,000 and he brought it to one of the Picasso
kids and they said it was a fake, and he said Paulette gave him a hard time,
that she was “difficult,” but she did give him his money back. But when you
think about it, thirty years ago would somebody really be doing a forgery of
Picasso? He started to get really really big in 1950. I came to New York in
1949 and Sidney Janis and those galleries were around and the Museum of
Modern Art and art became really big and Picasso became the number-one
artist. But it’s very early to have somebody be doing a forgery, so I don’t
know.
Then Thomas had invited Jerry Zipkin and he came by. He puts people
down when he’s “on,” though, he thinks he has to entertain. I was saying
that Holly Solomon and her husband owned the building that Marilyn
Monroe and Arthur Miller lived in and Jerry was putting her down, the way
she looks, the way she dresses. And Jerry said that what a lot of wives do is
they tell their boyfriends they want a $150,000 pin and the boyfriend gives
them the money and then they tell the husband the same thing, and he gives
the money, and then they buy the pin and they pocket the other $150,000
and each one thinks they bought it. And also he said that a lot of husbands
buy their wives jewelry in the company name so that when they break up,
the jewelry belongs back to the company. But a lot of wives have copies
made and sell the real ones before that.
Wednesday, April 7, 1982
We still didn’t have an Interview cover and then I guess they decided to use
Dyan Cannon, and Robert Hayes told Bob that I’d said it was okay, which I
know I didn’t because I would never say it, because I can’t stand her so
much. We had tried to get Rachel Ward but her agency said no.
I decided to go see Cat People. Was picked up by Jon and went to the
Gemini (cab $3, tickets $10). I really liked the movie so much. I guess I
really like the Scarfiotti art direction. And this time I really loved the arm
being bitten off and how they did it and the snap when it came out of the
socket.
Friday, April 9, 1982
It was my last exercise class at Lady Sharon’s. I’m so mad at her, she got us
all involved in this, and then she just dumps us out on the street and she
says it’s the people downstairs complaining but I know it’s not. If it didn’t
bother them before, it’s not bothering them now. So I’ll be doing classes at
John Reinhold’s for a little while and by then the exercise equipment I
ordered should be at the office.
Monday, April 12, 1982
I don’t know why I should really hate Sharon so much, but I just do, I just
resent her so much for getting me started on exercising at her house and
then just kicking me out. I really resent her.
Billy Squier came to lunch, and also at this lunch was Issey Miyake, and
he’s going to start a men’s line. He was saying that Japanese people spend
so much on clothes and he told me about the 6’ x 4’ hotel rooms where you
strap a TV around your head. He said that when Japanese people come to
New York City they have nervous breakdowns because of “all the space,”
and they can only send people from the suburbs there here.
Monday, April 19, 1982
Chris called and said there was a screening of the Fassbinder movie we’d
seen them shooting in Germany. I had a lunch to go to so we only saw an
hour and a half of the movie and that much was okay, but it was going to go
on for another forty minutes.
Tuesday, April 20, 1982
It was a busy afternoon. Fassbinder and his producer came by, I told him I
loved the movie. Then they went out and the producer came back and said
he’d left Fassbinder in a porno shop in the Village. He’s strange, Fassbinder.
He was nice when I introduced him to the boys at the office, but when I
introduced him to Lidija the exercise teacher he was peculiar.
I called Edmund Gaultney because Calvin Klein had asked me to get in
touch with Georgia O’Keeffe because he wanted to meet her and buy a
painting. And then I called Juan Hamilton and he was being grand, he said
that Calvin could fly to Albuquerque but he didn’t know if Georgia would
see him, and I said that Calvin didn’t do things like that and he said, “That’s
how it goes.” So I called Calvin and told him that he should call Juan
himself, because really, it’s all personality.
Wednesday, April 21, 1982
The limousine was picking us up to take me to Butler Aviation where I was
shooting an ad for U.S. Air. They had like 100 people for this commercial
and the Rockettes were in it, and Dick Cavett who had just left, and I met
the director and the assistant director and I hated them, it was just like
Hollywood—guys in gold chains and running shoes and bluejeans.
The makeup girl covered my pimple, then I was put on the plane next to
a lady in a grey wig. My line was that I had to pick up a bagel and say,
“What is art?” and I couldn’t get it right— the first time I said, “What is a
bagel?”—and I had to do twenty takes.
Oh and I could just scream at Paul Morrissey because I open the paper
and I see that Frankenstein is now playing in fifty theaters and during this
time when he’s quibbling and nitpicking with me about every little dot in
this formal contract he wanted made up to spell out what percentages he
owns of which movies, and while he’s having his lawyer, Chase Mellen,
write up every little thing—like in twenty years if I’m not around what
happens—here Ponti or some Mafia company or somebody is making a
fortune off Frankenstein, so why wasn’t Paul on top of that? I think I’m
now going to really read the contract he wants me to sign and then I’ll say
that I won’t sign things until they’re even more spelled out—I mean, what
happens if he’s not around in twenty years? I don’t want to have to negotiate
with his mother over foreign rights. I think I’ll do that. Yeah, I think I will.
And have I mentioned that Mrs. Rupert Murdoch wrote me a letter about
saving the church? The one on 66th Street that I go to, St. Vincent Ferrer.
It’s in danger of people not going to it. It used to be the chic Catholic
church, but now it’s always empty.
Thursday, April 22, 1982
Halston’s show was great, the simple wonderful clothes he does. And he
used ten or twelve girls. He had this new fabric that’s beautiful, that’s like
paper and silk, and people were feeling it to see what it was. It came in
gunmetal grey and gunmetal green and like with a waterfall through it, like
iridescent. And studs everywhere, lots of studs. Lauren Hutton was next to
me and she was using the same camera that I use but she was shooting from
the hip and I told her that she’d never get a picture unless she looked
through it and put the circle in the right place. She said wasn’t it great we
were Montauk neighbors now—she and Halston and Peter Beard’s brother
bought 100 acres and she and Halston are going to divide up the land and
build on it.
Discussed the Extinct Animals portfolio with Ron Feldman.
Sunday, April 25, 1982
Picked up Jon to go to the park. By accident ran into his boss Barry Diller
who was with Calvin Klein, David Geffen, and Steve Rubell out together
for a walk. It was sort of a shocking moment. Everybody looked guilty for
something.
Monday, April 26, 1982
Jane Fonda called and she’s coming on Thursday for me to do her portrait. I
decided to do it after Fred read her husband’s bio and political ideas and
told me I should.
Sean McKeon called and he’s back from a modeling job in Hamburg. He
said he’s breaking up with the girl he’s living with—she has a nice
apartment—and that he was up for grabs if I want him, so I said I’d think
about it and call him.
Tuesday, April 27, 1982
It was nice to be in the rain with an umbrella, nobody bothers you.
Chris came by and was having marriage problems—Peter had stayed out
till 3:00 and Chris got hysterical crying, and here’s this person who you’ve
only seen being strong and you would never dream that he would ever get
like that, and it shocked me so much, I decided that I really liked him a lot
because he’s actually this marshmallow. I decided that I really had to help
keep the marriage together so I invited them out to dinner.
Worked all afternoon.
Went to the Coach House and it’s so fattening there—corn sticks and
things, it’s so good. I’m 120 now but I’d like to get back down, I don’t think
I’ll see 115 again. I’m not anorexic anymore, but I want to be. Lidija says
it’s muscles making me heavier. I mean, you see these kids who’ve been
working out for a year or so, like Marc Balet who once had a slight
hourglass figure, and now it looks like he’s put on a coat! It’s so strange
(dinner $250).
Wednesday, April 28, 1982
The marriage of Chris and Peter is recovering.
And I redid the lips on the Agnelli portrait. I wonder what’s going to
happen to all these portraits in ten years when the little silkscreened dots
that make up the image start to flake off.
Thursday, April 29, 1982
Jane Fonda was coming down at 2:00 and I had a beauty class at 1:00. Fred
and I had a big fight about the makeup person and he had to go out to cool
off. Then he came back. Jane Fonda had her own hairdresser and her own
makeup person with her, and she was on crutches and she was oh-so-
charming because she was wanting something free. Really charming. She
asked about Geraldine Smith and Eric Emerson who she and Vadim once
took back to their hotel room with them after meeting them at the Factory. I
told her Eric was in heaven and Geraldine was in the phone book.
I had Brigid stitching away on the new sewing machine I bought
because I want to sew my photographs together, but then it turned out that
the best sewer is my bodyguard, the ex-Marine Agosto, because he worked
in a sweatshop in Hawaii before he went into the marines.
Wednesday, May 5, 1982
Cabbed to 720 Park Avenue which is at 70th, the very chic building. Mrs.
Landau wants the color of her hair in her portrait changed from black to
brown. A boy butler brought in food, mushrooms with pate, stuffed, and
then peapods stuffed with cheese. What kind of food is that? Is it French? I
knew it must have been handled so much but I was so hungry I ate it. And
she has so many Picassos. We talked about restaurants and paintings. Then I
said I had to go because Steve Rubell was picking me up to go to a black-tie
Democratic dinner.
He had a girl driver in a miniskirt and blonde so she looked like Blondie
but she was a slow driver and so Steve shoved her aside and took over.
Went to the Sheraton Center, to the ballroom. It’s so crummy there. Steve
wants to get his liquor license back so he’s contributing to everybody’s
campaigns.
Thursday, May 6, 1982
The birthday dinner for Richard Gere that Silvinha was giving wasn’t until
10:00 it turned out, so I went home and worked a while (cab $5.50).
Went to Richard Gere’s on East 10th Street (cab $7). It was the
penthouse apartment with a big terrace, it seemed like it was almost a block
long. Silvinha paints there. Diane Von Furstenberg was there and the South
American kids. And John Samuels was there, he said he’d gotten the lead in
Hotel New Hampshire with Diane Lane and Amanda Plummer, directed by
Tony Richardson.
Jann Wenner and his wife were there and he looks like he’s losing
weight now. Stayed there till about 2:00.
Sunday, May 9, 1982
Thomas Ammann came to town and asked about the art business. I asked
him if he wanted to go to the opening of the musical Nine with me that
evening and he said yes. It was the night of Bob’s birthday party at the new
Club A that Elizinha Goncalves was giving for him.
I picked up Jon and we went to 333 East 60th Street to Club A (cab $7).
It was really a great party, so glamorous, you’d never think it was for Bob,
all these great people were there. I was next to Betsy Bloomingdale and I
talked to her, she said Alfred was still sick. “Suzy” was there, and Lynn
Wyatt flew in for the party, and Farrah Fawcett and Ryan O’Neal. They had
these old men serving who looked like they were from those restaurants on
the Lower East Side from years ago, the good kind of waiters. It must have
taken a lot of work, this party, and a lot of planning. And the food was
really great. They had caviar stuffed into smoked salmon so you had two
courses in the same breath.
Monday, May 10, 1982
I was invited by Jon to see An Officer and a Gentleman with Richard Gere
and Debra Winger. I can’t tell if I liked it or not. Jon said he cried three
times during it. Richard Gere has gotten to be a really good actor now,
though. And Debra Winger is a good actress but she has this nose that just
misses. If she had a nose job she could look like Ava Gardner—or anything.
Tuesday, May 11, 1982
Got up early, did the phones. Had an appointment with Doc Cox, walked up
there. The receptionist lit into me about how I didn’t pay my bills on time
and how Vincent was so awful when she called and I was starting to tell her
off but then I stopped. And Doc Cox could hear everything so I guess he
was the one who told her to say those things. And Rosemary is still the big
cheese over there. I had an 11:00 appointment but I didn’t get out until 1:00
or 1:30.
The New York Times had a big article about gay cancer, and how they
don’t know what to do with it. That it’s epidemic proportions and they say
that these kids who have sex all the time have it in their semen and they’ve
already had every kind of disease there is—hepatitis one, two, and three,
and mononucleosis, and I’m worried that I could get it by drinking out of
the same glass or just being around these kids who go to the Baths.
Thursday, May 13, 1982
At the office Ronnie was still being difficult. The day before we’d had a
fight and I’d told him to cool it. It’s like that time I sent him out and told
him to get anything but a key lime pie and he brought back a key lime pie
and we couldn’t figure out why he would do that. Well he was stretching
and doing it crooked and then we had a fight and he said to me, “Well you,
don’t paint, you don’t photograph, and you don’t stretch—what else can
you not do?” I don’t know what he’s trying to do. He’s the way he was
when he was drinking and taking drugs, only he’s not doing that now.
Worked till 6:30.
Saturday, May 15, 1982
Went downtown to the gallery where Chris Makos was showing his drag
pictures of me and where there was a show of Candy Darling photographs
by all different photographers. The place was mobbed, it was the opening,
and people like Jackie Curtis and Gerard Malanga were there (cab $6).
Dropped Jon (cab $6.50).
Monday, May 17, 1982
I went in at the end of the lunch for Jody Jacobs from the Los Angeles
Times, and Joan Quinn and Bianca Jagger came. Bianca said she wanted to
do the Steven Spielberg interview with me. And now that I’m thinking
about it what made Joan Quinn look unusual was that her hair wasn’t
colored, the pink and green—it was regular hair. And for once she didn’t
ask for a painting.
Tuesday, May 18, 1982
I tried to get some background information on Steven Spielberg for the
interview with him. I decided not to be mad at the horrible P.R. girl who
wouldn’t let me into the screening of E.T. the other night. She sent orchids
to apologize and it’s stupid to keep thinking about things like that.
Wednesday, May 19, 1982
Went to the Sherry Netherland with Bianca to interview Spielberg and he
was really sweet (cab $3). He was on his bed and he invited us to have
some dinner. Bianca was hot for him because she wants to be in one of his
movies, and he was hot for Bianca because he liked her in her movie. He
said that he saw my movie Sleep when he was about twelve and that
inspired him to make a movie called Snore. He said it was the most fun
interview he’d ever done. We were going to invite him down to the office to
try to sell him some art but then he suggested it himself. He said he’ll be
back in town on the twenty-seventh and I said I’d be out of town but we’d
arrange something. I dropped Bianca at the Carlyle and I went to Jon’s to
pick up a script (cab $4). Stayed twenty minutes.
Thursday, May 20, 1982
Watched W.C. Fields with a mustache in a movie I’d never seen before.
Fred was working out our itinerary and plans for Europe. Brigid and I
went over to the beauty parlor on Third Avenue and I got a pedicure and
manicure. People going by looked in the window and saw me and couldn’t
believe it ($26).
Two girls from Visual Arts saw me and came in and then ran back to
school to get their art portfolios out of their lockers to show me. Brigid ran
into Gerard Malanga on the street on her way out and brought him in and he
had his camera with him but the wrong lens so he was going crazy because
he couldn’t take a picture of me getting a pedicure. Then the Visual Arts
girls came back and I introduced them to Gerard and it was like old times,
seeing him go after beautiful young girls. And while I was there two men
came in and made appointments, I guess because they saw me in there. One
was a fashion victim. The manicurist said there’d be a three-day wait and he
said, “Well, put me down.”
I’ve gained weight. I don’t know what to do, my shirts are getting too
tight for me.
Monday, May 31, 1982
Talked to Brigid, she’s up to 170 and people are asking her if she’s having a
baby. I called Jay Shriver and he came in on the holiday because it’s been
such a crummy weekend. Worked all afternoon. Sent Jay for supplies ($30).
Did some hand-painting. Finished the Crosses. Dropped Jay (cab $5.50).
And England is winning in the Falklands.
Friday, June 4, 1982
Had a 2:00 shooting at Avedon’s for a Christian Dior spread. Andre Gregory
was there and he’s in a play downtown that he wrote. He co-wrote and
produced the movie My Dinner with Andre, and he told me that when he
was raising $500,000 for it, they told him, “What’re you trying to do? Make
an Andy Warhol movie?”
Everyone was wearing Dior clothes and they wanted to shoot me
painting, but I said that it’d be more modern if it wasn’t, to keep it simple or
it’d ruin the shot. Doon Arbus was there and it was her first time back
working with him, she and Avedon had had a big fight.
Saturday, June 5, 1982
Up early. Got supplies for the office ($22.73, $33.82). I went into one of
those Korean produce stores and there were about fifteen people in there, it
was mobbed, and I listened to this guy rave about a pineapple for ten
minutes, and by the time he was through, I was dying to get one, too. He
was saying, “I want it ripe and ready! Juicy! Luscious! Ready to eat, right
off the bat!” And then I turned around and it was Nixon. And one of the
daughters was with him, but looking older—maybe Julie, I think. And he
looked pudgy, like a Dickens character, fat with a belly. And they had him
sign for the bill. There were Secret Service with him. And the girl at the
cash register said he was “Number-One Charge.”
Went to My Dinner with Andre (cab $4) and there was a line so I told the
girl that Andre sent us and would she please let us in and she thought I
meant for free, but I said that I’d pay. I fell asleep, it was so boring. Hippie
talk. I guess the kids are thinking this is intellectual because it tells about
feelings. Home, bed at 1:00 (cab $4).
Tuesday, June 8, 1982—New York—Baltimore—
New York
I had to go to Baltimore to see Richard Weisman’s father, Fred, present my
portraits of Ten Sports Figures to the University of Maryland. By the way,
does the Diary know that Fred Weisman got his skull fractured by Frank
Sinatra in the sixties? At the Polo Lounge in Los Angeles. They didn’t know
each other. Sinatra hit him with a phone.
Decided to fly on New York Air because I’d done the commercial for
them, and it was a mistake because the plane didn’t take off for forty-five
minutes, they said they were waiting for parts but I think they were just
waiting for the plane to fill up. And nobody mentioned my commercial, not
even the stewardess when she handed me a bagel.
Arrived at University of Maryland and a girl comes running up and says,
“How does it feel to be at the school that graduated Valerie Solanis?” I
didn’t know that Valerie went there! I’d never heard that, so that was new.
Was photographed and invited to the house of the president. And so we
walked over across the campus, to his house, to sit and chat with a select
few, which is always so boring. Got the shuttle and was back in New York
at 3:45.
Rupert came and we worked on the poster for the Fassbinder movie till
8:00.
Wednesday, June 9, 1982
Somebody stopped me on Park Avenue and said, “You’re that person on
that commercial,” and I said yes and gave him an Interview, and then he
said, “Maybe you can help me?” and I said what was it because I was in
sort of a rush, and he said that he wrote scripts and would I look at them
and then he said, “And what’s your name?”
Curley had his twenty-fifth birthday, and so we sent out for things and
had drinks.
Thomas Ammann just called to tell me that Fassbinder just killed
himself. Well, he really was strange. When he came to the office he was
reeeally strange. And when I say somebody’s strange, you know they’re
strange. He was thirty-seven and did forty movies.
Dropped Rupert (cab $5). Went home and was picked up by Richard
Weisman to go to the Grease II premiere. Jon was taking Cornelia Guest.
The movie was everything I dreamed for. I loved the Pfeiffer girl and the
Caulfield boy and Pat Birch’s direction was great. It was so good. John
Travolta is so dumb for not doing Grease II. What is he doing now? Can
you imagine being a star and not working? Do you sit in your palace and
take (laughs) acting lessons, or what?
Friday, June 11, 1982
Cabbed to “21.” I was meeting Richard Weisman who was having a party
for the Cooney-Holmes fight. Then we walked over to Radio City to watch
it (tickets $30). I guess they have a new screen, the image was so clear, you
could see the pimples on the fighters’ faces. We’d made bets beforehand
and I had “Holmes in the fourth” and that almost happened because he was
knocked down in the second, but in the end Richard’s girlfriend won. I was
the money-holder. At Radio City everybody was for Cooney, all the Irish.
Holmes won by a TKO in the thirteenth round and everybody booed.
Sunday, June 13, 1982
Watched Dog Day Afternoon on TV and who was that playing the drag
queen? That was good acting. He held his hand up a little too much to his
neck, that was all. Otherwise, it was really perfect, and good lines, one was
like a Candy Darling line.
Tuesday, June 15, 1982
Sent Agosto up to the Madison Avenue Bookshop for copies of Edie, and
they told him, “It’s selling like crazy” ($60). And in the book is a
photograph of this totally wrong birth certificate for me. I just don’t
understand it. For Andrew Warhola, and it’s from a different city and it says
October 29, 1930, I think. Where could they have gotten a thing like that?
What is it? And with the mother’s name blocked out. I don’t get it.
Was picked up at 6:00 by Chris and Peter for Grease II, I was seeing it
again. Saw the movie on a smaller screen and it didn’t hold up. Without the
blasting sound from the Ziegfeld, I could understand why the critics said it
was boring.
After it was over I went to Ashton Hawkins’s for dinner. Annette Reed
and I sort of hit off a conversation. She said she saw Clint Eastwood’s
movie Firefox at a benefit on Monday at the Museum of Modern Art, and
that Clint was there, and so was his girlfriend, Sondra Locke. And after
seeing the movie they all went to the Pierre for dinner and she said it would
have been so much nicer, darling, to just have gone to “some Italian joint
with friends.” She said Clint was “fascinating” and the movie was
“interesting” but that she would rather have been with friends, darling, and
let the movie end the experience.
Wednesday, June 16, 1982
I decided to see Grease II for the third time. Lorna Luft was having a
screening at Paramount (cab $5.50). But Lorna wasn’t even there. Her
husband, Jake Hooker, was, and he said that Lorna’s seen it too much. Sat
in the back row and this third time it was better than when I sat up close in
the screening room.
Thursday, June 17, 1982
Forgot to say that on Wednesday, Jay Johnson brought Marianne Faithfull
to the office. He wasn’t drinking, but she was, and she had I guess a
boyfriend with her. And when she got there she was sort of out of it, but
then she had some wine and by the time they left she was bubbling. Tom
Cashin’s signed a modeling contract with Pierre Cardin, so he travels a lot
now.
I went out with John Reinhold. We went to the Odeon and Henry
Geldzahler was eating alone so we took him to dinner ($198.85). He told
stories about Jean Stein and that’s when we got the idea that he should tell
her I was doing a book on her.
Friday, June 18, 1982
Brigid made Jay Shriver go out drinking with her. I think the Edie
Sedgwick book has been hitting her hard because I think she thinks it
should have been a book on her. So she took Jay out drinking at lunch and
told him her San Simeon stories from when she was a little girl visiting
there when her father ran the Hearst Corporation. Then she came back to
the office and wanted to be entertaining, so she was rolling on the floor but
it was just a fat person rolling on the floor.
Monday, June 21, 1982
Met Sean McKeon and Chris and Peter at the Mayfair (drinks $20). Chris
had his car and we went over to Couri Hay’s party for Cornelia Guest, a
barbecue on West 81st Street. And Cornelia’s coming-out party the other
night that I didn’t go to made The New York Times. I should have gone. And
Cornelia’s gotten so fat she looks like the Pillsbury Dough Boy.
As we were walking between Amsterdam and Broadway there was a
woman walking with two dobermans and a man carrying a wrench.
And Bob Colacello has a life of his own now. I never see him after work
anymore. Is he doing great things? Is he having fun?
Talked to Jon in California and he was going to stay an extra day
because he’s trying to move from media relations into production.
Wednesday, June 23, 1982
Jane Holzer picked me up and she looked pretty in a red Halston. We went
to City Center for the Martha Graham thing. After the performance, Bianca
lost Tricky Dicky Cavett and had to find him and then we went over to
Halston’s. And Dick was telling me about this transsexual in New Orleans
that was after him and asking me what he should do and I just kept saying
he should fuck her, and I don’t know what he wanted to hear. And Dick was
doing anagrams for a whole hour. And I went completely off my diet, I had
potato chips and drank and I felt like Brigid.
Left with Dick and Jane, and Dick was pawing Jane in the car and I
asked him where his missus was. Was dropped by Dick at 2:00.
Friday, June 25, 1982
Rupert and all the kids told me they were going away for the weekend, so I
decided not to go down to the office, I was afraid of getting stuck in the
elevator.
Talked to Jon and he was going to stay home after going to the doctor’s
because he was rundown.
I’d gotten tickets to the Feld Ballet in the old Elgin Theater which they
now call the Joyce Theater. Met Chris and Peter there. Fun costumes and
cute kids. There was one all-girl number and one all-boy number sort of like
Grease and then one boys and girls together. The West Side Story number
with all the boys was done sort of as if they were making out.
But dance is so disillusioning for me. If you’re over twenty-five, you’re
finished. Because after twenty you lose that sparkle, you get too stylized.
And there’s always a sparkly fifteen-year-old coming along to wash you up.
Then we went to Claire’s on Seventh Avenue on the West Side, it’s like
one of those new, bright California places, all latticework, and jammed with
fairies and Way Bandy came in and he looked like death, and he just drank
coffee and I told him I still want him to do my makeup when I go out on the
town.
Saturday, June 26, 1982
Went down to Heartbreak, the new discotheque near Vandam near the
Paradise Ballroom. It’s a cafeteria in the daytime and then a disco at night,
and the music is all fifties and some sixties and everybody dresses the way
they want and everybody dances the way they want. If you did a movie of
it, it would be so underplayed. And all the kids at Heartbreak were coming
over and saying that I’d told them at Studio 54 I’d look at their work, and
all I could say was, “Well, so when are you coming down?” and even the
doorman at Heartbreak I think is coming to show me his work.
Sunday, June 27, 1982
Cabbed to 45th and Broadway ($6) to see Blade Runner (tickets $10) at the
Criterion. The movie was dark. I don’t know if it’s really abstract or really
simple. And there’s a narrative. It’s like Dick Powell playing Philip
Marlowe. And if I ever saw this as a script, I wouldn’t know what to think.
And they say these lines seriously, it’s all done like it’s real problems. And
it’s like Ronnie Tavel’s plays in the sixties or Charles Ludlam’s. Dropped
Jon (cab $8). Watched cable till 1:30.
Tuesday, June 29, 1982
Worked all afternoon.
Went to the thing at the Plaza for Bill Blass Chocolates and a guy there
told me that my sister-in-law, Ann, and his mother are religious fanatics
together. And at first I pretended that I didn’t have a sister-in-law because I
can’t stand her. But then I told him about my nephew Paul who left the
priesthood and he told me about his sister who left the convent and now is
fucking black guys. I had strawberries dipped in chocolate. And I left
depressed after a sugar letdown.
Wednesday, June 30, 1982
Geraldine Smith came by with Liz Derringer who was interviewing me for
the Southampton newspaper. Gary Lajeski is having a show of my prints or
something out there, which I don’t even know anything about, in a couple
of weeks, and Fred thinks I should go because he says then you’re in
people’s minds and they’ll buy later.
Decided not to go to Lena Home’s goodbye party. Decided to go to Roy
Cohn’s third annual birthday party in his house in Greenwich. Steve Rubell
wasn’t driving his car because he’s been drinking too much, so Ian drove,
and it was me and Steve and Ian and Bob. And Bob is so sour, he doesn’t
talk to me anymore. I didn’t wear a tie. I was wearing an Interview T-shirt
and he got mad at that. I don’t know what’s his problem.
Roy’s house is right near the center of Greenwich. It’s a really little
house. And when you go to these Roy Cohn things all everybody says is,
“It’s so amusing, it’s so interesting, because you never know who you’ll
find at these things.” They say you get everyone from the Mafia to the shoe
repairman. Which is true, because this guy came over to me and said, “I’m
the garage mechanic who worked on your car for years. I’ve always wanted
to meet you.” C.Z. Guest was there, she’d put in the roses at Roy’s house,
and Cornelia was with her. And I did something dumb. I guess wine is
affecting me quicker now. The guy Combemale whose wife is Freddy
Woolworth’s sister was telling me a joke and he tore a dollar bill in half. So
I took out a hundred dollar bill and tore it in half and gave half to Mrs.
Bassirio and half to Doris Lilly and told them that they’d have to be friends
forever because they each had the other half.
The food was really good, but the people were acting like such animals
to get it. Everybody says Roy has seven boyfriends, one for each day of the
week. And he must have gone to a butcher to have a facelift, because you
could see the bloody scars from his latest one, they really were showing.
Tuesday, July 6, 1982
With the eclipse of the moon we got letters from the faithful nutty-letter
writers, people like Joey Sutton and Crazy Rona. And Paul America called
—I don’t know from where—but the office has a list of “Do Not Take Calls
From” people so they didn’t put the call through. And they said he was
saying that he was one of my superstars, but he was never even in one of
my movies. Oh wait! My Hustlerl I forgot, (laughs) he was the star. He
(laughs) was My Hustler.
And Jean Stein’s going to be on the talk-show circuit probably with
Viva. Oh, I’ve got to put the bug in Viva’s ear that Jean Stein is just using
her.
Friday, July 9, 1982
I was invited to a surprise birthday lunch party at a restaurant on 48th Street
for Phyllis Diller’s sixty-fifth birthday. So I decided to stay uptown until
that at 1:30.
When I walked in a lady with glasses said that she still had my mother’s
book, and I was trying to think of which lady in my advertising days would
I have given one to, and I just couldn’t place who this grandmother-looking
woman was, and then someone said, “Kaye!” and it dawned on me—Kaye
Ballard. And so I went running back and had to pretend as if I’d just been
out of it. And she was fun, she’s in The Pirates of Penzance. It’s funny,
these people were such big TV stars, and then when you lose your ratings,
you’re just like a normal person.
And at 2:00 Phyllis Diller arrived. She said that they told her it was a
New York Times interview and that they wanted her to wear a bright-colored
dress because it would photograph better, but she hadn’t known why, since
the Times was black and white.
Tommy Tune arrived and he’s all Southern charm, he said that he still
reads the Philosophy book, that it’s made him what he is today, that he
picks it up and rereads it for inspiration and he feels good again.
The press was there and they took photographs. And it was embarrassing
because I’d brought Phyllis a Cow print wrapped in an Interview and she
thought the wrapping was the art and she was being so careful with it and
she said [imitates], “Faaabulous.”
Saturday, July 10, 1982
Brigid was going through her old files, she has the whole seventies
documented. She has what she did every minute written down and then on
tapes. She did so much. If people found out all you could do on
amphetamine, it would really get popular again.
Wednesday, July 14, 1982
Worked on the Endangered Species portfolios and talked on the phone to
Ron Feldman and sent Chris down with them, and Ron was excited, really
excited, and now we have to figure out how to market them. Dropped
Rupert (cab $5.50).
Saturday, July 17, 1982
It was a scorcher. Went to the Whitney Museum (admission $4). Saw the Ed
Ruscha show, which was interesting. Went to see Young Doctors in Love
(tickets $10) and it was really good (cab $3). It was directed by Garry
Marshall who I didn’t know was an old guy. And there was a funny scene
where the guy in the Calvin Klein ad is wheeled into the operating room in
his jeans in the same position he’s in in the ads, and so that’s funny if you
get it. Not everybody gets it.
Sunday, July 18, 1982—New York—Fire Island—
New York
Chris called and said we were getting a 10:00 plane to go to Fire Island to
take photographs. Picked up Jon and went to 23rd Street (cab $8). Got to
Fire Island and had lunch at an outdoor spot. We decided to call Calvin’s
and he said to come right over (phone $.20). And Calvin’s house is right off
Ocean Walk and there’s 8,000 boys around it, and a lot of girls, too, and
they’re all walking around wanting to be discovered for a jeans ad.
When we went home we had the same pilot and as we got to the water
we heard a noise and I think something broke, and when we finally made it
to Manhattan we had a very hard landing. I don’t think he was a good pilot,
and when we got out we saw gas leaking (round-trip $360 plus $40 tip).
Calvin had said you don’t have to tip them, but the pilot didn’t give me my
change back either time, so I guess you do.
Tuesday, July 20, 1982
Got up early. It was a hot day. Went to Bloomingdale’s just to get cool.
Went to Janet Sartin and John Duka the fashion guy from the Times was
there, he looked over my face, and he’s probably going to write about it,
and when I was done I told him I felt like a new woman. I think my face is
getting better. I’m not sure. Janet (laughs) was blaming it on the weather.
Friday, July 23, 1982—New York—Montauk
Landed in Montauk in forty-five minutes and got into Halston’s new car.
Victor was there with “Ming Vauze,” who is really his friend Benjamin in
drag. Bianca was out there but she was pretending not to be, because later
Jon saw her on the beach and she made him swear to God that he wouldn’t
tell he saw her because she was with Chris Dodd who’s a senator from
Connecticut who’s getting divorced from his wife.
Saturday, July 24, 1982—Montauk
It was a really beautiful day. Jon had brought Indecent Exposure out, the
David Begelman book. And everybody was reading Edie. It was funny to
look and see everybody with that cover. And I think that as he read the Edie
book Jon started to turn on me. But Ian Schrager as he read it got more
interested, but the thing he kept asking questions about was Paraphernalia.
Dozens of questions about Paraphernalia—who owned it, who designed it,
who really owned it. And it’s the most unimportant thing in the book. I
guess he was sort of interested because of Norma Kamali, although I don’t
think they’re still seeing each other.
The kids with beautiful bodies were playing the pinball machines in
town. It looked like all the movies I’ve been seeing, like Porky s, they were
just beautiful. Gosman’s was too crowded with old people so we went to a
local place where there were kids and models, and that was $40. Got a
toothbrush ($2) at White’s, the drugstore. Went back and watched TV and
talked intellectual. Read the good art books that Victor always has around.
Steve Rubell and Ian had gone to East Hampton to play tennis with
Steve’s brother and they brought back corn and came just in time for dinner
and all Steve could rave about was the corn because he brought it. Steve
and Ian’s deal to buy a hotel went through.
Sunday, July 25, 1982—Montauk—New York
When I woke up and went to the kitchen, Steve was having his morning
Coca-Cola and reading the book on the Annenbergs, he’s fascinated by
crooks.
Christopher called and said he’d gone to Fire Island for the day. Nena
went to the hospital for an operation. I asked Doc Cox to check out her
doctor and he did and said that she was in good hands. I asked him to keep
a close eye on her situation.
Monday, July 26, 1982
Got up at 9:00. Called Nena at the hospital, talked to her doctor, they said
the operation is in the morning and it’ll be intensive care for two days
afterwards.
This girl from Santa Fe came by the office, she used to work at
Interview. I can’t remember her name. One of those girls like from Aspen
who look deep inside you and want to know your real true meaning. She
reminded me of the kind of girl that would always be visiting Jed from
California, that type. And she was after Agosto and I got dead serious and
told him to go in the back and not come to the front until she was gone. I
mean, I’m not going to let her ruin his life by looking for meaning in it! She
left a note for him with her number on it, and I destroyed it, I didn’t tell him
about it. I’m not going to let her start trouble.
And I kept running into Doria Reagan in her muumuu and I think I kept
asking her if it was a Perry Ellis. I was nervous about the fashion show that
I was supposed to model in at Studio 54 at 9:30 so I was drinking coffee all
day and trying to be thin.
Cabbed to Studio 54 ($4) and couldn’t find the back door but a black
bum found us ($.50). Inside there were twenty-five raving models and me,
and they all had big baskets and tight underwear. I talked to Michael
Holden and told him I couldn’t believe he wasn’t a movie star yet but it
didn’t come out right because I was nervous. I had to go out twice. I was
numbers 33 and 49.
And then afterwards Chris criticized my modeling saying that since I’m
older I should walk proud and show who I am and not be shy and keep my
head down, but I think I have to figure out a way to be more of a buffoon, to
fall down or something.
Then we went to a party at Heartbreak (cab $8). Chris and Peter were
fighting because Chris wanted Peter to pick up a model and he didn’t.
In the cab going home I was scared because it was a big black driver and
there was no picture on the license. Got home and called Jon to tell him
about my modeling experience. He was in bed in L.A.
Tuesday, July 27, 1982
Went to Madison Square Garden (cab $4) to see Billy Squier, he was just
going on. Backstage there were about fifty nude girls serving hot dogs and
beer and mud wrestling. Took pictures, then realized I didn’t have film in
the camera. And an absolutely nude girl came over and said, “I see you at
St. Vincent’s church every Sunday.” The Queen group was really nice to us,
they gave us drinks.
We went to the Palace which is the new discotheque on 14th Street
where Luchow’s just moved out of. And it was packed, packed, like a
deathtrap firetrap. There’s a lot of little rooms, I don’t know what that
means.
Got home and talked to Jon in California.
Wednesday, July 28, 1982
Went out with Jay to a teeth store he found, it’s on 21st on the ninth floor
and it’s so great, all these teeth. I wanted a giant-size aluminum set, they
said it was antique. They recognized me because Jay had an Andy Warhols
TV T-shirt on (teeth $484). Carried the big teeth in the rain. That was fun.
Calvin Klein invited me out to Fire Island for the weekend and I talked
to Steve Rubell and he said that Bianca had called and asked if I was going
to be there, because she was invited, too.
Thursday, July 29, 1982
Called John Reinhold and invited him to come to Suzie Frankfurt’s with me
but he said he wanted to spend time with Berkeley, his twelve-year-old
daughter who just got back from camp. So I invited them to Serendipity and
we went there (cab $8) and ordered big things just to look at. And it was fun
talking to Berkeley, she’s given up being an actress and now she may be a
cartoonist. She left camp ten days early. It was one of those ones where you
milk cows and feed chickens.
Dropped them off ($6) and then went with Curley to 33rd and First
Avenue to pick up this friend of his and it was a little brownstone and he’s
6’6” and sleeping on the floor and the place is a mess and it’s fun to see
how kids really live who go out looking so chic in Brooks Brothers clothes
and velvet slippers and here they are living in a hot box. Went to Xenon
(cab $6).
Howard Stein was there. And Cornelia Guest had called and invited me
to a party at his place on Sunday in East Hampton. He’s using Cornelia to
get into East Hampton society and (laughs) she’s using him to get into
Xenon.
Oh, and Bob is being so grand, he won’t tell me any inside gossip about
the Bloomingdale thing. It was in the papers yesterday that now Alfred
Bloomingdale’s mistress Vicki Morgan is suing his wife Betsy because she
said it was Betsy who made Alfred stop sending her money. Vicki Morgan
said, “And after all those Marquis de Sade things he made me do.” So this
is the president’s best friend.
Saturday, July 31, 1982—New York—Fire Island,
New York
Got to the Pines and called Calvin’s from the Boardwalk to tell him that
Chris was with me just for the day. They said it was okay. Went over there
and only Chester Weinberg and David Geffen were up. It was a grey day,
had some breakfast. Then Calvin and Steve Rubell woke up and they talked
about the fun time the night before.
Went to a Hawaiian party at Gil de la Cruz’s down the street. In the
sunlight you can really see what these people look like, you really see. Egon
Von Furstenberg was the only one I knew. Although I thought I recognized
the dog from the Breakstone TV ad, the one with the black spot over his eye
that Sam Breakstone chases away. Then we went for pizza, and you could
really see in the light who the dogs were (pizza $20). Then we went back to
Calvin’s but we walked in on Calvin and Steve who were with those two
porno stars Knoll and Ford and so we were embarrassed and left and went
back to the party down the street.
Then went home again and by this time Chester Weinberg had come
back from the party, too, and he had walked in on two guys who told
Chester to go away so Chester was hiding out in his room. Then we had
barbecued steak and all the talking was gay gay gay. If I’d had a tape
recorder you wouldn’t believe it. Then what happens is everybody goes to
bed about 12:00 and sets their alarms for 2:00 because “things don’t get
really hot until 4:00.” I heard everyone getting up at 2:00 but I stayed in
bed, and later I heard them all coming back from their 4 A.M. cruise.
Sunday, August 1, 1982—Fire Island—New York
Woke up in the Pines. In the maid’s room downstairs. Talked to Jim the
houseboy who wants to be a dancer. Put on block-out sun lotion because I’d
gotten red on the grey day before. Continued to read Indecent Exposure and
opened right to a page where they were talking about David Geffen, so I
read it out loud to him.
Talked a lot to David Geffen. His father made brassieres. It turns out he
was a person I didn’t know, just one of those fringe people around Danny
Fields, and he knew Nico when she was with Leonard Cohen. And his new
Donna Summer album got the greatest review ever, it’s going to make him
$2.5 million by the end of the week.
Went over to Gil de la Cruz’s for a minute, Diane Von Furstenberg was
there. I think she loaned the fabric for the Hawaiian party.
We got on a seaplane and took off and there were screams coming over
the radio that there was a door open, and it was mine, I could have fallen
out ($100).
We ran into Michael Coady from Women’s Wear where you land and he
wasn’t drinking so he was sweet. Then the pilot who seemed like he was
from New York said, “Where can I get a cab?” And so we told him, and he
walked with us, and he said, “Maybe I can help you out.” I said what did he
mean and he said he had the best cocaine and I said oh no no, that I didn’t
use it, and so then he was embarrassed and so we walked the whole three
blocks together without saying anything.
Monday, August 2, 1982
Mark Ginsburg was bringing Indira Gandhi’s daughter down and he was
calling and Ina was calling and Bob was calling saying how important this
was, so I gave up my exercise class and it turned out to just be the daughter-
in-law, who’s Italian, she doesn’t even look Indian.
Went to 25 East 39th Street to Michaele Vollbracht’s (cab $4.50). Ran
into Mary McFadden on the way in and I told her she looked beautiful with
no makeup and she said she’d never worn more. I told her that in that case,
as one made-up person to another, it looked like she didn’t have any on.
Giorgio Sant’Angelo was there. The food looked really chic but I didn’t
have any.
Went to Diane Von Furstenberg’s party for the launching of her new
cosmetics (cab $4). And all the boys at the party were the same ones who
had been on Fire Island. It was fun seeing Diane, she was hustling perfume.
Her clothes are so ugly though, they’re like plastic or something. And she
had all the high-fashion girls there wearing them. Barbara Allen was there
and even she looked awful in the clothes. I did get an idea for new
decorating though—big boxes of color that you can put in a room and move
around and change your decorating color scheme.
Thursday, August 5, 1982
I watched Tarzan on cable and Bo Derek is the worst actress in the world.
She was eating a banana, and she couldn’t even eat a banana. It was like she
had no teeth.
And Susan Pile told Jon that my birthday was actually August sixth and
I’d told him it was on the fifteenth because I thought I could get by it, but
now they’re having a party, I think. And I had big fights at the office.
Somebody left food around and I was screaming and I told Paige Powell,
our Interview ad-seller, to go and scream at whoever it was, and it turned
out to be this new kid at Interview who’s just so cute and he’s always nice
and smiling to me and walks me to the corner to get my cab and stuff, and
so then I was embarrassed and I denied that I’d told Paige to do it—I said
that oh, she must have just been on cocaine or something—and Robyn
repeated the word “cocaine” to her and she went crazy, and then I got mad
at Robyn for telling her, and he blamed it all on Jay and Jay said he didn’t
do it and I was handing out pink slips like crazy and I screamed at Jennifer,
the new receptionist girl, because I told her not to give me coffee in a coffee
cup and she did, she said there was nothing else there and I screamed that
there were plenty of champagne glasses and why didn’t she bring it to me in
one of those instead of a crummy old cup that everybody uses and God, it
was one of those days.
And I introduced Robyn to Iolas, I thought that might do the trick for
Robyn’s art career. Robyn’s such a nice kid but he has no ambition and he
does want to be an artist, and so I thought that since Ronnie left and things
worked out so well for him—his art career is doing really well —that
maybe it could happen for Robyn, too. So seventy-four-year-old Iolas
grabbed Robyn’s hand and was holding his palm. They say that you get
energy from that and you do, I think. So Iolas thought he’d get Robyn’s
energy. But I was hoping Robyn would get his.
Paul Morrissey is going off to Germany, he’s getting offers to do all the
movies Fassbinder was supposed to do. They should ask me!
Friday, August 6, 1982
It was a depressing day, my birthday. Wandered around the neighborhood.
Called John Reinhold for coffee but he had a lot to do because he was
getting ready to go on a trip to Japan. Jon was going to New Hampshire.
Ran into Robert Hayes and he said that Greg Gorman the Interview
photographer had called and they wanted me over on 18th Street near Fifth
to be in a publicity photo with Dustin Hoffman who was in drag filming
Tootsie, and I thought that sounded like fun.
But when I got there, they said, “All right, we’ll be shooting your scene
soon.” They actually were putting me in the movie. So Greg Gorman was
really devious, he must have known that for that I’d want to get paid. They
thought they could just get me in one second, which they did. Dustin looked
great. When I think of all the lady teachers I had that must have been really
drag queens! But then they thought that Dustin should be in a sexier dress
to be photographed with me, so they wanted to change him and asked me to
come back at 3:15.
And Ruth Morley was the costume lady. I know her because I worked
on a Thurber play that Kaye Ballard was in, and I really did the costumes
but Ruth got credit because of the union. In 1954 or ‘55.1 guess I was
exploited. And it was a rich-bitch producer, and you really do see people
carry on and cry because the show isn’t going right.
So went back to the office and there were little packages around, and
they kept calling me from the Tootsie set. Took Susan Pile over there with
me, she was in town from L.A. It was my birthday and I was trying to be in
a good mood but I was a grouch. When we got back to the set, Dustin was
wearing something more gay. And it was going to be Dustin’s birthday on
the eighth and I told him that was mine, too. (laughs) Met Dustin’s new
wife, very pretty, who looks like Debra Winger. So many of these girls now
do. But the baby looks like one of those babies Barbra Streisand would
have with Elliott Gould.
Walked on Columbus and Central Park West and saw Ron Galella
shooting on Central Park West and it turned out to be in front of Linda
Stein’s where she was having a party for Elton John after his Madison
Square Garden first-night concert. Called her up ($.20) and she wasn’t back
yet, so went over to Jon’s and called again and she said to come, just not to
bring too many people.
It turned out to be 100 Zoli models. That’s what Elton had asked Linda
to get and she did. Timothy Hutton was there with Jennifer Grey.
Tuesday, August 10, 1982
Wandered around the East Village and that made me feel weird. It’s picking
up again, the places were lighted. Gem Spa is still there. I thought about the
fifties when I lived on St. Mark’s Place and then about the sixties when we
ran the Dom discotheque there with the Velvets and Nico playing, and about
going to all those psychedelic things at the Fillmore and eating at Ratner’s
delicatessen and everything. It was nostalgic.
Saturday, August 14, 1982
The limo driver said that he didn’t know really how to get to New Jersey,
but that he’d try. We picked up Christopher and Peter and went out to the
Meadowlands to see Blondie, and before them on the bill was Duran Duran
and also David Johansen.
We went back to see her. And Chris Stein has lost thirty pounds, he’s
been sick, I think it’s all this bad air from some air conditioners. Debbie’s
so fat now, she kicked us out because she wanted to get dressed in her
Stephen Sprouse clothes.
Our seats were up in the concessionaire’s box, and that was fun. I took
pictures of the mother, the wife, and the kid, three generations of
concessionaires (hot dogs $20). And the milk shakes were so thick they
must have been plastic, it was like drinking margarine. Marianne Faithfull
came along and read a poem she wrote and somebody put down drugs and
she said, “Oh don’t put down drugs, because I’m on cocaine right now.”
And I did like her so much, she was much different than when she stopped
by the office a few weeks ago with Jay Johnson. She was so intelligent and
so together. And she didn’t have an English accent, she was like an
American, and so alert and not out of it at all.
Monday, August 16, 1982
I watched one of the morning shows and they had Ken Wahl on and he’s
very good-looking but he was smart-alecky and saying all the corny things
dumb actors say. Like that he could “go back to pumping gas.” He said,
“Well, I’m from the Midwest.”
But tell me why it is that everybody is so good-looking now. In the
fifties, there were the really good-looking people and then all the rest who
weren’t. Today, everybody is at least attractive. How did it happen? Is it
because there’s no wars to kill the beauties?
Friday, August 20, 1982
Christopher found a boy named Christopher on Christopher Street who said
that Paul Morrissey had also just found him on the street and asked him to
be in a movie he was doing in Berlin.
Saturday, August 21, 1982
Stopped at Schrafft’s on 58th and Madison and the waitresses there were all
saying, “Is it him?” “It’s him.” “It isn’t him.” And so when I went out I said,
“It’s me,” and they were thrilled.
Ran into Claudia Cohen on Central Park South where she lives with
forty-foot ceilings, and we decided to be Puerto Ricans and sit on a stoop
and gossip. She told me that that big Joan Hackett/Marsha Mason
“girlfriends” rumor that got all over town was started by Bobby Zarem
because he got mad at Joan Hackett who was his client. And so then we left
each other, and one minute later I saw Bobby Zarem walking along, talking
to himself.
Monday, August 23, 1982
The Duran Duran kids came by and brought some bigger and taller
girlfriends. Tried to stay on a diet but went off it by nighttime. The German
kid who had us do the Fassbinder posters came by. It turns out that Paul
isn’t actually taking over any Fassbinder movies, it’s that this kid hired him
to do a movie, and it’s going to be, Paul says, about a hustler who hustles in
order to buy clothes. But isn’t that why all hustlers do it? … No, I guess
that isn’t why Joe Dallesandro would do it.
I told the guy that Paul was nuts, that I’ve come to the conclusion he
really believes all these wild theories he comes up with. No matter who
Paul’s talking about now, he’ll either tell you they’re really a Communist,
or really in the Mafia. Before it just used to be that they were really a fairy
or a lesbian.
Wednesday, August 25, 1982
Got up and it was raining. Decided to stay uptown because Mercedes
Kellogg was giving a lunch and somehow I was invited and I thought it
would be a good chance to corner Bob about the Bloomingdale death gossip
because he’d be there, too.
Cabbed to Park and 74th ($2). It turned out to be a birthday party for
Claus von Bulow. And Doris Duke was there with Franco Rossellini. He
said that Isabella’s getting a million and a half for one of her modeling
contracts and that she and Marty Scorsese are still trying to work it out.
So when I had Bob cornered in the cab I asked him about the
Bloomingdale death, because it came out in the press on Sunday or Monday
that he had died on Friday, and Bob had seen Betsy Friday night out in
California, but Bob said that Jerry Zipkin knew but kept it a big secret and
hadn’t even told Bob when he and Bob went out to the supermarket
together.
Sunday, September 5, 1982—Montauk
Bianca came by with her Senator Dodd boyfriend who is a cross between
Teddy and Bobby Kennedy. He’s the youngest senator, thirty-eight. Took a
walk, took pictures, got back to the house. Halston was all dressed, saying
goodbye to us and we were shocked because we didn’t know what
happened.
Then Jon found out that Halston’s mother had died. Halston kept it a
secret all through dinner last night, he acted as if nothing happened, but he
told Victor to tell us after he left.
We had a really good talk with the senator. Robert Redford’s his best
friend. He’s keeping his romance secret because it’s only forty days left till
his divorce. Bianca is all over him (dinner $120 with tip).
Tuesday, September 7, 1982—New York
Hired Benjamin “Ming Vauze” Liu to pick me up every morning and keep
an eye out for me while I’m walking around the streets. He arrived late. Sat
around waiting for him and got mad. Found out Richard Gere was on the
new cover of Rolling Stone, complained to Interview that that was the
reason he turned us down. Watched Mr. Goodbar and Richard Gere was in
it and I hated him for turning us down. Actually he was so good in it,
though. Couldn’t watch the ending because it was too crazy.
Saturday, September 11, 1982
Went around with Jon who’s looking for a co-op to buy. Because I’ve
decided to do a real photo book of real apartments. Real Apartments. Not
photograph houses the way Architectural Digest does, but do just what
people really live like. Isn’t that a good idea? Bianca just got a ten-room
apartment at the El Dorado, it just went co-op so they’re all up for sale and
people are trying to make a killing. So cabbed to the El Dorado ($5). The
lady showed us three apartments, and the first was two faggots who’d just
bought a loft so they were selling, and then one that belonged to a lady I
guess in her eighties, and she had doilies and things on the sofas. It looked
like a Barbra Streisand kind of place.
Oh, and on Page Six in the Post a few days ago there was a headline:
“Warhol Man Does Mick Jagger’s Apartment,” and then the item said that
Jed was the director of Bad and now he decorates apartments, and they said
they asked him about it and he said, “No comment.” And there was an
article on survivors in the Daily News last Sunday—they asked Lester
Persky about me and he put me down, he said I was a has-been, it was
funny.
And I don’t think I told the Diary this, but Tom Baker, our star of I, a
Man, died. He O.D.’d. Mickey Ruskin had a wake for him.
Thursday, September 16, 1982— New York—
Washington, D.C.
I was nervous all day because I knew I was going to the White House that
night for the state dinner for the Marcoses. Took Valiums. I can’t stand
going to Washington, all those TV lights.
Arrived at 4:00 (cab $10). Went to the Watergate (tips $2, $4, $2). Jerry
Zipkin and Oscar de la Renta were there. Made calls, was very nervous,
ordered lunch, had more Valium, ordered a limo, and went to the White
House and got in easy.
Bob and I went with our dates. My date was Frances Bergen, Charley
McCarthy’s (laughs) mother. And she wasn’t interested in me at all, she got
away as soon as she could.
And the Marine introduced me on the line as “Mr. World,” and then the
girl sergeant escorting me said that she was nervous, that it was her first
time doing this. They asked me why I was invited and I said because Mrs.
Marcos lived on my street.
The Valiums weren’t really working, but then the dinner was outside in
the garden and it was so beautiful and it was dark so it was fine. And they
took a chance, no tent, and it was beautiful that way, but you get shoved and
pushed so much from place to place. Only about eighty people. Then they
turned on four billion lights. No TV cameras, though, so I wasn’t nervous.
The president’s table was right behind me. The president of U.S. Steel
was at my table, and I said, “Oh I’m from Pittsburgh and my poor brother is
out of work from the steel mill”—I was lying like crazy—“and he’s lost his
mill job and what you should do is put one of the unused buildings to use
and make it into a Disney World and give tours and charge people $10 to
get a little coal on their faces and see the hot lava being poured,” and he
said, “Oh what a great idea, why didn’t I think of that?” The Vice-president
Bushes were at our table, and she said that she knew somebody I knew but
now I can’t remember who it was.
Then the speeches came and the president made his quick and then
Marcos was slow. I relaxed. And then the Fifth Dimension came on and
sang “Up, Up and Away” and there’s more new members than old. I asked
one of the marines if there was a pay phone and everyone laughed at me.
Bob wanted to stay on and dance. I got the limo and went back to the hotel.
Called Jon and then fell asleep at 12:00.
Friday, September 17, 1982—Washington, D.C.—
New York
Got back to New York. Went to the office, worked with Benjamin all
afternoon. Went out with Chris who’d just gotten his clean “negative”
results back on his gay cancer tests. I was invited to Marisa Berenson’s
birthday party at Mortimer’s for her husband, Richard Golub, who’s the
man who made Brooke Shields cry. On the witness stand. The lawyer.
Karen Black came and that was fun. Took pictures. Left at 12:00 (cab $5).
Saturday, September 18, 1982
Got up early, it was a beautiful day. I couldn’t work with Jon because he
had to go to a gay cancer funeral at Paramount, it was a secretary there—a
male secretary. And I mean, I get so nervous, I don’t even do anything and I
could get it.
I made a mistake and blurted to Maura about Bianca seeing that
Connecticut senator, Dodd, who’s not divorced yet, and then I realized
Maura worked for Page Six, but she’s a good Democrat so she said, “Don’t
worry, I know when something would ruin somebody’s political career.”
Sunday, September 19, 1982
I’d seen Robert Hayes’s boyfriend Cisco going down the street with
someone else the other day, and I saw Robert crying, and so I thought
they’d broken up, and I asked Marc Balet and he told me that Cisco had just
found out he had gay cancer but that it was a secret. But then later that day
Robert told me anyway. They told him he got it three years ago and it takes
three years for it to show up, but I don’t know how they would know that,
since they don’t know anything about it or even what it is. Robert says he’s
been checked and he doesn’t have it. But he’d been going to Janet Sartin
and he was there at the same time I was, and I just know she used the same
needle on me, and I don’t know if she sterilizes it. I only like it when you
use the needle once and throw it away. And I’m not going to go to her
anymore, anyway, because I’m just covered with pimples, I don’t know
what good it’s done.
Monday, September 20, 1982
It was a busy day but I left early to catch Lana Turner at Bloomingdale’s
($8). Bought one of her books ($16). Then went up to her and she said, “I
don’t think I want to talk to you, I’ve taken you out of my prayers, you said
I was better when I hadn’t found God, so now I pray for you— badly.” So I
think it was something I said in the Faye Dunaway interview in Interview, I
guess she read it. And I didn’t know what to do, I was a nervous wreck, I
said, “Oh no, Lana, you’ve got to pray for me, please put me back in your
prayers!” And I said, “Oh won’t you please autograph your book to me?”
And so she finally did and wrote “To a Friend” with a question mark and
then “God Bless You” with another question mark. And Lana and her fairy
hairdresser and I were all there with the same hair.
Tuesday, September 21, 1982
Ran into Lynn Wyatt who was just back from Grace Kelly’s funeral. She
said Prince Rainier was crying and Prince Albert couldn’t talk.
Went to Diane Von Furstenberg’s (cab $4). Barry Diller was there and
Valentino. But out of the corner of my eye I saw George Plimpton and his
wife Freddy, and when she saw me she began running around me and acting
just nuts. She felt guilty because George helped Jean Stein with the Edie
book. She was like a headless chicken running around, just making all these
noises. And I told her, “Look, I don’t know what you’re carrying on about. I
don’t care about the stupid book.” I should have said that if she wanted to
make it up to me, just send a check. And I could see Jon talking to George
and later he told me he told George how could he put those things in the
book about me when he knew me personally and he knew they weren’t true
and that Edie was away from the Factory for years before she died.
Monday, October 4, 1982
Down to meet Bruno Bischofberger (cab $7.50). He brought Jean Michel
Basquiat with him. He’s the kid who used the name “Samo” when he used
to sit on the sidewalk in Greenwich Village and paint T-shirts, and I’d give
him $10 here and there and send him up to Serendipity to try to sell the T-
shirts there. He was just one of those kids who drove me crazy. He’s black
but some people say he’s Puerto Rican so I don’t know. And then Bruno
discovered him and now he’s on Easy Street. He’s got a great loft on
Christie Street. He was a middle-class Brooklyn kid—I mean, he went to
college and things—and he was trying to be like that, painting in the
Greenwich Village.
And so had lunch for them and then I took a Polaroid and he went home
and within two hours a painting was back, still wet, of him and me together.
And I mean, just getting to Christie Street must have taken an hour. He told
me his assistant painted it.
And by the way, Ronnie Cutrone’s art is selling like crazy, too—Steve
Rubell’s brother just bought a Cutrone.
Tuesday, October 5, 1982
There was a lunch and Gaetana Enders brought a politician from Venezuela
and his wife. He’s really good-looking, he has a cane, and his wife’s
beautiful. I’d met him at Halston’s years ago. They got away again, though
—he said that “maybe someday” he’d “surprise her with a portrait.”
And then Governor Carey’s wife—the Greek lady, Evangeline—came
and she came prepared for a free portrait. She wasn’t wearing a hat like she
always does, and so I said, “Where’s your hat?” and she said, “None of your
girls wear hats in their portraits.” So I took pictures of her and then I didn’t
know what to do so I called Bob in, and he talked to her, and then he told
her how much the portraits cost, and I think she must have fainted because
after she left, she had her guy call and say that a governor’s wife couldn’t
spend that much on a portrait while he was in office. But before, she’d been
saying that she wanted to have it done while he was in office because then it
would have “more prestige.” So she was trying to do all these maneuvers.
And I forgot to add that with Jean Michel Basquiat the day before, he
reached into his pocket and said he’d pay back the $40 he owed me from
the days when he painted T-shirts and used to borrow money from me, and I
said oh no, that’s okay, and I was embarrassed—I was surprised that’s all
I’d given him, I thought it was more.
So we were busy all afternoon. And miniskirts are really back, Cornelia
was wearing one at Xenon later.
Wednesday, October 6, 1982
Went to Sotheby’s and ran into Mr. Dannenberg who has a shop in Paris
now and he said, “I’ll have to watch you, because whatever you buy is
going to be the next big thing.” So there was all this really beautiful David
Webb stuff, but after he said that I just looked at it and turned up my nose
and made sure he saw. (laughs)
Sunday, October 10, 1982
I think I got up with a cold. Went to church. Jay Shriver called and said he
wasn’t going to come in to work. He was making “a statement.” So I told
him he didn’t have to, that I could do it myself. Benjamin Liu called and he
said he wanted the next day off to go buy makeup.
Monday, October 11, 1982
Took aspirin, still trying to get rid of the cold that’s beginning. Carried
about thirty Interviews with me. Walked by Fiorucci on 58th Street and a
guy was giving a lecture to a group of schoolkids in the front, so I handed
out all the Interviews. It was a “field trip” to Fiorucci’s, that’s what school’s
come to. And then from there I went to Crazy Eddie’s and looked at
computers, got the Atari game to figure out what all that’s about, and that
was exciting. There was a Columbus Day parade (cab $7).
Worked out with Lidija and Chris Makos. I’d made a date to see Doc
Cox in the evening, so I had to get people together to entertain him. Worked
on a Piss painting.
Then at 9:00 Doc Cox picked me up in his Rolls, I don’t know why he
decided to take it, and we Rollsed off to Mr. Chow’s.
Wednesday, October 13, 1982
Cabbed to meet Rupert ($5). Iolas was just leaving, he wasn’t staying for
lunch because he was upset because in Paris in a cab he’d just lost a million
dollars’ worth of jewelry. He hadn’t wanted to leave it in the hotel room so
he had it with him and he just forgot and left it in the cab. And that can
happen to anybody. It’s so scary. He said he could never replace them, that
it was all sentimental value, his whole life mementos. So lunch was just for
Linda Christian’s son.
Tuesday, October 19, 1982
This Retin-A stuff that’s for curing acne is working, but just on half my
face. Half of my face is perfect and the other half is broken out, all
eruptions. It peels away your face. I went to a new beauty doctor and he
gave me licorice root to take. I think maybe he just gives out things he
wants to get rid of. And he’s such a camp, too. These quacks. The first time
he took his fingers and touched my face he said, “Doesn’t this feel tense?”
and the second time he took his fingers and touched my face the same way
and in the same place and he said, “Doesn’t this feel relaxed?”
Cab ($6) to B. Altman’s dinner for the highfalutins. Ran into Sid and
Anne Bass, and into Ashton Hawkins. Got drunk and said terr—said funny
—I was outrageous, I guess. When I get drunk I get—outrageous. Then left
at 11:00. Wanted to go see the Go-Go’s but I was just so drunk.
Wednesday, October 20, 1982
The guy who’s doing a TV show on our trip to Hong Kong was at work.
We’re going for the opening of the “I” Club that this young cute kid is
organizing with Citibank. That’s what we’re going to Hong Kong for—the
opening of a discotheque.
Thursday, October 21, 1982
I have a pain from exercises. Maybe I’m doing them too much. I think
Lidija’s working me out too hard.
The jewelry auction the other day went well, so that means the economy
is picking up.
And Pontus Hulten called and wants a free thing, so I cabbed down to
meet him (cab $6.50, supplies $7, $6.62, $2.79, $3.19). It’s always the same
thing—a free print for a free museum for a free benefit and he does these
things that are great and then they fire him. Like at the Beaubourg, they
fired him because he’s not French after he did that big thing there. And now
he’s opening a museum in California. But I mean, he wants things for free,
he thinks he’s living in a Socialist country. It’s like Jonas Mekas, that same
type of thing.
And I forgot to say that the other day Governor Jerry Brown called and
said, “Hi Andy, it’s nice talking to you. We know each other and you know
how I feel about art, and if you could do some art for me, then along with
the other artists I could put your art up as collateral and get a loan from the
bank and fund my run for the senate…"I told him to talk to Fred. I mean, he
could have had me do his portrait while he was governor and the city or the
state could have paid for it, they were having to do his portrait anyway.
Well I mean, Marcia Weisman or somebody would have paid for it.
The pain is increasing in my lower abdomen. I’m going to have to cut
down the exercise classes.
Friday, October 22, 1982
Wandered down Fifth Avenue. Passed out Interviews. Tried to give them to
a bunch of construction workers and they laughed me off and I got
embarrassed, but then another group of construction workers in the next
block asked for some, so that balanced it out.
Later, after work, I went to pick up Chris (cab $5) to go to Calvin
Klein’s big birthday bash at Studio 54. Mark Fleishman had said that the
best time to come was really early, at 10:00 or so. Maura came to meet us
and she was dressed neatly but we all laugh because she’s—kind of messy.
There’s always a spot or a stain someplace (cab $5).
In the entrance of 54 there were balloons and white grand pianos and
stick-on bows on the floor. I felt slighted because Calvin was at a table with
Bianca and some of his family people like mothers and grandmothers. I
would have liked to meet them (cab $8).
Wednesday, October 27, 1982—New York—Hong
Kong
Arrived in Hong Kong, evening. It was hot and muggy, Florida-type
weather. Twelve hours’ difference in time, so you didn’t have to change
your watch, which was kind of great.
Alfred Siu, our host, met us. Rolls Royce and limousines. Jeffrey Deitch
of Citibank was at the airport to meet us, too, and he’s adorable, such a
sweet guy. He’s the one who got us involved with the whole project.
Mandarin Hotel. We were all on different floors—I was in 1801, Chris in
1020, Fred in 820, and his girlfriend Natasha Grenfell in 722. I had a suite
overlooking the harbor, it was very beautiful, but everyone said Hong Kong
was having a recession.
And then after we got straightened up Alfred wanted us to go to the I
Club to look at it, it was just a block away in the Bank of America on the
first floor and it still wasn’t finished, they had three days to finish it. And
we met the designer of it, Joe D’Urso. He said he’d decorated all of
Calvin’s apartments. Alfred is so pretty—a spoiled, cute kid, just adorable.
And Joe D’Urso is this fat little slob but really talented. Went back to the
hotel, called New York.
Thursday, October 28, 1982—Hong Kong
Up early to do the two sides of Hong Kong looking for tailors. All the kids
were getting clothes except me, I’m just not a clotheshorse (cabs $4.50, $5,
$6). Lunch at the I Club with Alfred Siu and about eight girls that he
thought were going to have portraits done. One was an American married to
a Chinese, the others were Miss America types—Miss Taiwan, Miss This
and That, and they’d married rich guys from the construction business and
they all hate each other and they’re all beautiful. Burmese and Chinese and
all gorgeous dolls dressed to kill. And after lunch Alfred’s beautiful wife
took us to a place where they do fortune telling and it was like 8,000
fortune tellers and you had to pick the one you wanted, so I picked this lady
and I asked how my love life was and (laughs) she said I’m married to a
younger lady and I’m having problems.
And then Chris began taking photographs and he took some of sleeping
fortune tellers and the flash woke them up and they chased us all out of the
place—I guess none of them wanted their picture taken because of the evil
eye or whatever it is.
Alfred had a dinner party and it was so glamorous, we took a junk out to
his private boat. He imported a crew from New York to photograph us while
we were there and they were awful, seven of them, and I don’t even want to
remember their names. We all went to Disco-Disco, a drag queen place, and
an English girl came up to me and wanted to dance and I didn’t want to and
she said, “You’re not anything like what they write about in the papers,”
and I said, “Well, I know that.”
Friday, October 29, 1982—Hong Kong
Muggy. Took the boat across the river to Kowloon ($12 there and back). We
had to meet the Sius at their house way up on the hill, you can see all of
Hong Kong. We were followed by the crew everywhere, every minute.
The pre-opening party was “exclusive,” my dear, really grand, lots of
people. The show was okay. The gym was open and they had exercises.
They got me on a machine and tipped me upside-down with all my pills
falling out of my pockets and my hair almost fell off. Then went to the
disco. It was just finished one minute before the opening. Danced with
Natasha Grenfell, pushed her around, I was drunk. All our possible portraits
fell through and Alfred was embarrassed. We sneaked out about 2:00.
Saturday, October 30, 1982—Hong Kong
Got material for ideas at the Peking Communist Store ($250). And I finally
found out that Hong Kong is actually owned by the Chinese, that England
just rents it! So now I know why everyone’s nervous here, the lease is
almost up.
The big opening of the I Club was 8:30 to 1:30. Home at 4:30. Called
New York.
Monday, November 1, 1982—Peking
Two-hour car ride and everybody was singing great American songs.
Finally when we got to the Great Wall it actually was really great. I’d been
putting it down, but then it was staggering. We went on the left side because
it wasn’t so steep and so crowded, and all the Chinese were taking pictures
of themselves. My hair almost blew off and I think they got a picture of it.
Soldiers go there with their girlfriends. It’s like walking up to the Empire
State Building.
Then we got in a bus and went to the Ming Tombs and that was
staggering, too, and that was somehow two hours away, too. It was a whole
afternoon.
Went to bed with my clothes on. The Peking Hotel. The place was
infested with roach motels.
Wednesday, November 3, 1982—Peking
Up at 6:30, another crew day. Went to the bird fair, that’s where people get
together and sell birds, that’s what they do with their time—sell worms and
spiders and birds. Then got on the bus and went to the Summer Palace. Met
Americans we knew there—Lita Vietor who was so nice to us in San
Francisco, and some Palm Beach people, they were on a tour. Stopped off at
the I.M. Pei hotel and photographed it.
Went to a commune and the children came out and they sang “God Bless
America” and “Jingle Bells” and it was disgusting because it was just so sad
to see these little kids having to perform like animals. Another truckload of
bus people would arrive after us and it would be the same routine and they
would hug you, same show.
Thursday, November 4, 1982—Peking—Hong
Kong
We left the hotel to catch the 8:45 flight. Had some tea ($12). You can’t tip
people. Everybody tells on everybody. Then we found out that if you give
them a couple of cigarettes, that’s what they really want. Should have done
things like that, but we hadn’t figured it out. So got to the airport and sat
around for hours. Then a lady and her husband had lost their passport and
for an hour and a half they were going through everything looking for it,
and the lady was screaming at her husband, it was just such a movie scene,
and then two minutes before the plane was ready to leave, the lady put her
hand in her pocket and found it. They were really old, it was sad. It was so
horrible. They were old and they couldn’t get out of China. “Where is it?”
“You had it last.”
Ran into one of those English groups, like maybe the Clash, on the
elevator. On the same floor as us.
Saturday, November 6, 1982—Hong Kong—New
York
Took a Valium because I was facing an eighteen-hour plane ride. Read the
Neil Sedaka book and the Britt Ekland book and they were both so bad.
Neil’s daughter, Dara, is the biggest thing in Singapore and Tokyo.
Monday, November 8, 1982
Sent Benjamin down to Chinatown (laughs) because I hadn’t gotten any
gifts for anybody when I was in China. And I also told him (laughs) that he
was under consideration for being fired because I was so tired of looking at
Chinese people.
Did mail at the office and only got through one-third of what I have to
catch up on. I began getting jetlag. Decided to stay in.
Wednesday, November 10, 1982
Bob was having lunch with Jann Wenner at Le Cirque. But I knew Jann
couldn’t take him away from us because Bob makes so much more money
at our place. I think Jann just wants to pick his brain. And Bob said John
Fairchild and James Brady were also at Le Cirque, so I guess it’s the new
place for gossipers.
Worked all afternoon. Decided to stay home and get rid of my cold. I
watched Dynasty and the best thing was the baby getting kidnapped,
because they used a real baby. You know how usually TV shows use a doll?
Well Dynasty had the real baby being dashed through the streets with its
head bobbing and bouncing around. And gee, everybody on that show has
such awful hair.
Saturday, November 13, 1982
Chris had invited us to the Shafrazi Gallery for the closing of the Keith
Haring show, he’s the one who does those figures all over the city, the
graffiti. His boyfriend is black, and so he had 400 black kids there, so cute,
so adorable. Just like the sixties, except (laughs) black.
And Ronnie was there looking very chic with his girlfriend. His art’s
selling like crazy.
Then there was a party for the show in the basement where it was all in
blue light and they wanted me to go down, but I knew my hair would turn
completely blue, so I didn’t go.
Monday, November 15, 1982
Jean Michel Basquiat who used to paint graffiti as “Samo” came to lunch,
I’d invited him. And then I went at 3:30 to Julian Schnabel’s where I was
posing for him. And I had on a Paramount T-shirt which would have been
good to pose in, but he made me take it off, and I was posing like that for
two hours, standing there. And I took off my glasses so I could look him in
the face and still look out of it.
Thursday, November 18, 1982
Had to get into black tie and go to a de Menil party for the Yves Klein
opening at the Guggenheim (cab $5). I met Mrs. Klein, she’s remarried.
Then went upstairs and Fred was there with Natasha Grenfell. And then
Jean Stein came in and I just sort of ignored her.
Then cabbed to the Guggenheim ($4). Walked all the way up the ramp
and saw the show and then all the way down and saw the show. Then went
home and was in bed by 10:00.
Friday, November 19, 1982
Donahue had a show on gay cancer but I didn’t want to watch it, it made me
nervous (cabs $3, $5, phone calls $.40).
It was busy at the office. Interview was giving a lunch. Worked all
afternoon. Had to leave early to go to the pimple doctor, Dr. Silver.
Dr. Silver said not to use soap ($6.50).
Saturday, November 20, 1982
Tom Cashin called and said that Zoli had died of gay cancer.
Thomas Ammann picked me up in his limo and we went to the Odeon
and it was star-studded with artists—John Chamberlain and Joseph Kosuth
and the Christos and a lot of art dealers and Barbara Jakobson. And a creepy
girl who said she’s been trying to come in to the office to see me, but Robyn
won’t let her in. She wants me to look at her work so badly that I’m going
to have to or she’ll go crazy (dinner $256.80).
Monday, November 22, 1982
Did the streets with Interviews. The Calvin Klein issue is heavy (kitchen
supplies $94.02, $9.75, $5.36, $30.85, cabs $3.50, $5, phones $.40).
Worked out with Lidija.
Worked on the cement sculpture project all afternoon. Did some
painting.
Then cabbed, glued ($5.50). Went to Sandro Chia’s at 521 West 23rd,
he’s in the same building that Julian Schnabel paints in ($7). Sandro showed
me his new paintings.
Tuesday, November 23, 1982
Vincent was going away and so we stayed late and paid bills, and Jay was
in a mood where he wanted to get screamed at. When he wants to get
screamed at he does something wrong on purpose. Like he painted
something the wrong color and he said he knew he did it. After he gets
screamed at he just looks like nothing happened but he’s satisfied. And we
were there till late.
I’m invited to Halston’s for Thanksgiving dinner.
Wednesday, November 24, 1982
This weekend Bianca accused me of telling People magazine about her and
Senator Dodd, she said the only people who knew were me, Steve Rubell,
and Halston. So I guess Steve told them. And Page Six of the Post had a
thing saying she was now seeing Woodward in addition to Bernstein, and
she actually picked up the phone and called the Post and made them correct
it the next day, that she’s only seeing Bernstein.
Thursday, November 25, 1982
Thanksgiving. It looked cold out. The office was closed. I’d woken up at
4:00 and turned on TV and some movie with Margot Kidder was on that I
couldn’t figure out but it made me so scared. It was the end and the police
left her alone in the house—I don’t know why, because she was traumatized
—I guess they thought the crimes were over, and then you hear some guy
upstairs, coming down, calling her name. And you don’t know what’ll
happen. And it got me so scared. Got up. The house was empty.
Talked to Chris and Peter. Peter’s mother had come down from
Massachusetts and they were cooking turkey and they invited me to come
downtown.
Watched the Macy’s parade on TV. They had the first woman balloon—
Olive Oyl.
I called Berkeley Reinhold and she was watching it from her window.
She said her mother was making Thanksgiving dinner for the first time. Her
father was in Hong Kong, so I called John Reinhold there, I dialed it direct.
He was at the same hotel where we’d stayed, so it was easy to remember—
the Mandarin. I made a faux pas. I told John his wife was making a
Thanksgiving dinner, and he was upset because she’d never made one
before.
Watched every soap opera and for the holiday every one of the shows
had every one of their characters gathered for Thanksgiving dinners. It used
to be high-class people in the soap operas and now that’s just on Dallas and
Dynasty. Now the people on the daytime soaps are lower-middle class—
they don’t have butlers and maids.
Talked to Jon in New Hampshire.
Went to Halston’s for dinner and Martha Graham was there, and she
looked frail, like she’s on her last legs. And then Steve Rubell came, and
Jane Holzer with her son Rusty, who’s so handsome now. And he’s smart. I
talked to him the whole time. He goes to Buckley and he had the highest
average and he studies all the time from after school till bedtime, and then
he studies some more in the morning before school to maintain his 93
average. He said he and another kid were the only ones who knew the
answer to the question “Who painted Campbell’s Soup Cans?”
Jade arrived with Bianca, she goes to Spence. And I had Rusty go say
hello to her, and she was aloof, she said, “Do I know you?” and he said, “Of
course,” and she said, “Oh yes, about a year ago,” and he said, “No, two
years ago,” and so he was annoyed, she was putting him down, but Jane
explained to him that girls get nervous and do that.
The turkey was organic, from Jane’s Pennsylvania farm. I slipped out
without saying goodbye to anyone.
Friday, November 26, 1982
Found out that after I left Halston’s, Rusty discovered a fire that’d started in
a fireplace and gone to a Marisol sculpture and into a closet, and if Rusty
hadn’t noticed it, Halston’s would have burned.
I’m giving everyone framed underwear for Christmas. Went up to 86th
Street and then down (cabs $5, $4).
Jon called, said he was back in town.
Saturday, November 27, 1982
Brigid called and I invited her to see Cars (tickets $200). Cabbed to the
theater ($6). We had first-row seats but on the side.
The first act was so boring, but I noticed the pussies of the girls in the
cat suits. I was so revolted. You could see the slits up their fronts. They
should really wear pads. And you could see the hair coming from their
pussies, but then they also had cat fur put on there, so it was confusing. But
oh, you could just see everything! Maybe that’s why all these old men are
going to the show. And I finally saw what the set was, a big Pop Art thing, it
was like two-feet-high Coke bottles, and two-feet-high Campbell’s Soup
Cans, whatever you would find in a kitchen. But Oldenburg size. And
people were gesturing me to look at it. And a lady near us put her husband’s
coat and hat on a box in front of them, and it turned out to be a Brillo box
that was part of the set and his hat got squashed when a cat sat on it. Oh, but
those pussies. You could see the— cracks—and the lips—of the—the—the
—vulva. Okay? That’s how outlined it was.
Monday, November 29, 1982
I’d invited Pierre Restanay and his wife to lunch. He was so nice to me in
the sixties I wanted to be nice to him. He’s the French art critic. And his
wife is very striking, 6’2”—I guess she was a model. French women if
they’re chic have the dykey look. Mrs. Restanay was wearing an old Lanvin
men’s coat.
Ronnie Cutrone came by and while I was working out with Lidija, he
entertained Pierre and his wife, he didn’t know who they were, and Pierre
said that he’d seen his show at Shafrazi and liked it. Ronnie’s selling
everything he does. He could have been doing this for years. He actually
was doing all that stuff first that the Italians now are doing.
And then later, I decided to go see Twyla Tharp do dances to Frank
Sinatra songs. Called Jon. Picked him up (cab $6). And as we were riding
up to the Rainbow Room in the elevator, we realized there was a Paramount
party on the floor below.
Got to the Rainbow Room and it was star-studded. Saw Sam Spiegel and
Peter Duchin who said, “This is my live-in girlfriend,” and it was Brooke
Hayward. That’s a strange couple. And Leo Castelli was there, and he
doesn’t hug me anymore. He’s never with Laura de Coppet anymore, either.
And this performance, I guess Twyla just decided to do something just
straight, she had nine couples doing nine ballroom dances, but any people at
Roseland would have done it better. And afterwards I talked to Twyla for a
minute. And then, as we were leaving, I saw Dick Avedon, Tuesday Weld,
“Taverne,” and Paul Simon and they said Ann Reinking was there and
Baryshnikov and Treat Williams (coats $2).
So then the elevator stopped on the floor where the Paramount party was
and Nick Nolte got on and Eddie Murphy. And Nick Nolte’s fat and his hair
is over his eyes, like one of those dogs, but he’s so good-looking. They say
their movie is really good, 48 Hours. And Eddie Murphy’s really handsome.
That intelligent look. They say he’s going to be bigger than Pryor. And I
was just speechless, and I said how thrilled I was, but then I remembered
I’d met him at something once before. And then some girls were lined up to
get Nick Nolte’s autograph so I did, too, and he just kept his head down and
signed, he didn’t even look up to see who it was (cab $4). Bed at 12:00.
Thursday, December 2, 1982
Cabbed to Xenon ($4) for Cornelia’s birthday party. And I guess she was
bored because she picked us out right away. Then photographers came over
and said that Stallone was on the other side of the dance floor and that he
wouldn’t be photographed with any girls, so would I go over there and be
photographed with him. So I did, and Stallone was sweet, he said he was
starting to shoot a movie in February in New York starring John Travolta,
and that I really should stay in touch. He had about eight bodyguards with
him at the bar. Then left. Got a fast cab ($5).
Saturday, December 4, 1982
I invited Curley to see Tootsie. We couldn’t get in at first, they were giving
us a hard time, there weren’t tickets for us that Charlie Evans was supposed
to leave. And if I’d known at that time that I was actually in the movie
which I didn’t even get paid for—that I appear on the cover of People
magazine with Tootsie when she gets famous—I would have been pushier
and said I could take in as many people as I wanted.
And the movie, they play it really straight, Dustin does. It’s not really
like a drag queen, it’s like having an aunt that you didn’t know was a man.
It’s something else entirely.
Then we went over to Charles Evans’s. It was packed with stars, so we
sat by the food so we’d see everybody. Dustin was sweet, and the director
Sidney Pollack was, too. I talked to Teri Garr who was great in the movie,
and we talked about Henry Post and does he have gay cancer— that’s the
rumor. And Curley got me to drink. I had vodka.
Tuesday, December 7, 1982
Went to the office to meet Jeff Bridges (cab $4.50). Bianca was supposed to
do the interview with us but she cancelled out last week. Got there, did
some videoing. Jeff Bridges is big and rugged, like 6’2", he’s like a regular
guy, he was sweet and hard to talk to. Then he said he was an artist and he
took Polaroids of me and I showed him my painting stuff, gave him a tour,
and from the Polaroids he’s going to do a portrait of me.
And the kids photographing him for Interview didn’t know how to shoot
him, they had him doing all this silly stuff—they don’t know that when you
have a good-looking normal man you should just let him stand there. I gave
him a Philosophy book.
Friday, December 10, 1982
Walked to 17th Street all the way down from 77th Street. And I’d called the
office and asked if I had any appointments and Jennifer, the after-school
volunteer who answers the phones, told me no, and when I got there Paul
Bochicchio who makes my hair had been waiting there with it for five hours
so I yelled at her. And she was making wreaths out of holly, and I thought
fine, okay, that she was doing it for her house, but then she started putting
them up on the wall and I started to scream to get them down because the
office isn’t supposed to have Christmas spirit, so she got it twice in one day.
And then she moved them into the bathroom. Jennifer now has suddenly
picked up bad work habits from Robyn. Worked till 7:30.
Sunday, December 12, 1982
Got up early, it had snowed out. Opened all the windows. Decided it was a
good day for a walk. Met Chris and Peter at the Plaza. Went to the
Edwardian Room. We had a long, big lunch ($240 with tip).
Went to Iris Love’s party for Pauline Trigère at Dionysos at 210 West
70th St (cab $6). It was packed with stars—Diana Ross and some beau, and
Morgan Fairchild and David Keith—he was with another girl but he’s girl-
crazy so he was after Morgan. The Herreras from society were there, and
lots of the girls—Paloma and Fran, and Marina and Florinda. There was
Greek dancing. Iris changed into a Greek toga.
Monday, December 13, 1982
Jodie Foster called and said that she had an interview with Nastassia Kinski
that Yale Daily News didn’t want and did Interview want it, so we’re going
to use that with a cover of Nastassia for February. She’s so sweet, Jodie.
Tuesday, December 14, 1982
In Liz Smith’s column she made that party at the Greek restaurant on
Sunday sound so great! They always sound so great later when you read
about them.
Went over to the back-massage guy on Seventh Avenue and now Chris
tells me that he’s not really a shiatsu masseur, he’s a chiropractor. And it
seems now that it’s just me who goes there. It’s so lonely there, I’m
probably his only customer. He’ll probably break my back so I’ll have to
keep going to him (phone calls $.20).
Then went back and worked on my Alfred Hitchcock portrait for Vanity
Fair. Waited for Rupert. Mr. LeFrak called and I’ve got to get to work on
his portrait.
Then there was a screening of Gandhi and went to that at the Columbia
screening room at 56th and Fifth, and the movie was just thrilling. It was
three hours long, and the only thing that ruined it was Miss Candice Bergen.
It’s like a jolt of reality. Suddenly there she is, saying that she’s Margaret
Bourke-White of Life magazine, the photographer. She’s just awful. Jarring.
Like me in The Driver’s Seat. I was so bad in that. But I could have been
good if they used me good. Oh and some movie star told me recently that
Bad was the best movie they’d ever seen. Now who was it … ? Oh, it was
Jeff Bridges! He loved Badi
Thursday, December 16, 1982
Went all the way to Chinatown from way uptown because it’s so funny to
hear Benjamin talk Chinese (cab $9, phone $.20). We went looking around
for new ideas, but it’s so hard to do these things all at the same time, all the
pressure—looking for new ideas, the pressure of painting, the pressure of
buying the building. It’s a lot of stress.
Friday, December 17, 1982
There were about eighteen parties going on that I missed. Frankie Crocker
was having a party at Studio 54 that Laura Branigan was going to sing at.
Maura Moynihan was having a Christmas party then playing at Danceteria.
The Ritz was having a concert for the Who that was going to be televised.
Suzie Frankfurt was having an open house and Couri Hay was having a
party.
Sunday, December 19, 1982
Decided to go to Vincent and Shelly’s party. They had about eight babies
there and all the kids from the office. Asked Jay as a Christmas present to
please get me a cab.
Monday, December 20, 1982
Had to meet the LeFraks. And they hated their portrait. She said I made her
look too much like Kitty Carlisle.
Worked till 7:00. Gave PH her earrings for Christmas—David Webb
frogs from the forties— and she was thrilled. Then went to Dr. Silver and he
said I’ll be cured of pimples in two weeks.
Tuesday, December 21, 1982
Mrs. LeFrak didn’t like her hair and Rupert’s working on it right now. I’ve
got to call and tell him to make the screen fluffier—more highlights in her
hair, but it’s probably too late.
Wednesday, December 22, 1982
Went over to the Waldorf to the debutante ball thing. And Cornelia was
supposed to be there because she’s doing a How to Be a Deb book with Jon,
but she wasn’t there. And then this curly-haired blond boy came over and
said, “You did some paintings for my grandfather,” and I asked him who
was his grandfather, and he said, “Nelson Rockefeller.” All the kids at this
thing were so beautiful. All the boys looked like Robyn in tuxes.
Thursday, December 23, 1982
When I walked into the office everyone was in a bad mood. Brigid began
putting Christopher down and said that the only Christmas present that
everybody at the office would really want is that Chris never come up there
again. When I told him about it later he said that maybe he should pay
Brigid the $20 he owes her. She did some work for him a few years ago on
a project that then he didn’t get paid for, so he felt that he didn’t have to pay
her. And then of course he’s cheap, that’s really why he didn’t pay her. And
Robyn was so moody. Jay went home to Milwaukee and he’s the only one
who might’ve actually worked.
And Peter Beard called and wanted us to okay a check from Cheryl
Tiegs that he was trying to get cashed at Brownies because he wanted to go
around the corner to Paragon and buy some sports equipment. So I guess
he’s being kept by Cheryl. She’s really got the bucks, she’s got the Sears
contract.
And Lorna Luft came down because Liza’s giving her her portrait for
Christmas. And she had no makeup on and she looked beautiful. She’s on
the Cambridge diet, and she really is pretty. Her portrait will be like
Marilyn. If she just kept her regular brown haircolor and her regular looks,
she could be a big serious actress. But instead she tries to look the opposite
of Liza, to get an identity.
Christmas is so confusing. Jon left for New Hampshire.
Friday, December 24, 1982
I made people come in to work and Brigid spent the whole day like
Madame Defarge, she sat around needlepointing, thinking about not having
the day off. My nerves were shattered, I couldn’t put anything together.
Worked at the office trying to wrap paintings up for the Halston group. Had
Benjamin meet me at home.
Went to pick up Sondra Gilman, her kids are grown up now. The girl’s a
model type. The boy is tall, too. They’re beautiful, like Village of the
Damned kids. The girl said how these old photographers tried to pick her up
and one took her to dinner at Le Relais and tried to impress her, saying he’d
made this one and that one—made their careers—and this young girl was
telling me about it and laughing at him.
So then finally we went to Halston’s and Halston wasn’t anywhere in
sight. It was odd. Although we were four hours late. But finally we found
him upstairs with Steve Rubell, next to the tree. Halston gave me—maybe
—two Elsa Peretti candlesticks from Tiffany, but I had to sign a note saying
that I would return them to Halston if it turned out that he couldn’t get
another pair for himself. So that’s a new one. And I was a wreck, trying to
figure out what size paintings to give to who. It was harrowing.
And Steve Rubell gave me five cassettes. And he kept saying it over and
over: “I gave you five cassettes. Isn’t that just the greatest gift?” I mean,
they were just tapes that you can buy, like a Michael Jackson tape, that cost
$3 apiece. I mean, Steve was cheap when he had money, and now that he
doesn’t have any …
Saturday, December 25, 1982
Got up late. Went to church. Had a miserable Christmas. Got Benjamin to
come into the office before he went home to San Francisco (cab $5).
Worked with him all afternoon trying to get my bills paid. Heard about the
big snow out in Denver. Gave Benjamin cash for working that day ($100).
Tuesday, December 28, 1982—Aspen, Colorado
At 8:30 Barry Diller invited us to have cocktails with Calvin Klein and
Marina Cicogna and Diana Ross. Diana came in and she had just bought a
cowboy hat and big white shoes and she was out for action.
We all got in cars and followed Barry, he’s a bad driver. Then Barry
invited us out to dinner to Andre’s. The food there was disgusting. Jon lost
part of his Kieselstein-Cord belt. Diana was dancing on top of the table and
everybody wanted to dance with her and she said, “I’m dancing with all oí
you!” That was a great line.
Thursday, December 30, 1982—Aspen
John Coleman told us Barbi Benton was giving a party so I just casually
called her and said, “Hiiiii,” and she said, “Hiiiiiii,” and so then I said, “Oh
I was just calling because we had so much fun last year, you know …”—
playing it that way. And so she said she was having a party and would I like
to come, and I said, “Oh why yeeeesssss.”
We arrived at 7:00 and I met her parents and they were adorable. I found
out about her being born in New York and about her having a grandfather
who bought her fifty dolls and the mother wouldn’t give them to her. And
they moved to Sacramento when Barbi was three.
Met Zev Bufman again.
Buzz Aldrin came, from the moon. The astronaut. Took a lot of
photographs of him. He’s aged but he was cute and glad to meet us. We
decided to start lying that night—Chris told people he had a twelve-month-
old baby and that he was watching it while his wife was back in New York
and they all believed him. And I told them I was a deep-sea fisherman, and
this lady invited me to Boca Raton. I haven’t been drinking at all.
Friday, December 31, 1982—Aspen
Chris went skiing with Cornelia on Buttermilk. Mark Sink called. He’s the
bicycle racer who does circulation for Interview in Denver.
Drove over to Jimmy Buffett’s. As soon as we got in Couri Hay had
taken one of our tables and filled it up with boys—Tab Hunter and a mincy
boyfriend. But then Jamie Buffett gave us another table and then the party
started getting good. Barry Diller arrived with Diana Ross, and Jack
Nicholson with Anjelica Huston—Jack’s got a big fat belly now. It was all
country-western.
Five minutes before New Year’s we decided, Jon and I, that we didn’t
want to be in a crowd and so we went right outside, not to hear them
singing “Auld Lang Syne.” Then we watched the fireworks outside and
went in ten minutes after. So it was great, nobody even knew we were gone,
and they had finished all their kissing and stuff.
Saturday, January 1, 1983—Aspen
Something strange happened, I thought Jon was trying to kill me. We were
on a snowmobile and he pushed me over a cliff. I thought he did it on
purpose. But somehow there were trees there and I fell off into a deep snow.
We rode to the house, that was fun, but I didn’t realize till I got back how
scary going off the cliff was. Then it sunk in what had happened. So I
confronted Jon, and he told me I was just being crazy and I was relieved.
Sunday, January 2, 1983—Aspen—New York
I didn’t have one drink the whole time I was away. And I didn’t gain
weight, either. I just got weighed and I’m 126 still.
Monday, January 3, 1983
The LeFraks called and said they still hated their portrait. Mr. LeFrak said
why weren’t Mrs. LeFrak’s eyes hazel in the portrait, and then he said his
nose was too bulbous. So maybe if we fix those two things it’ll get by.
Bob still wasn’t back from Santo Domingo from the Cisneroses. And
Time magazine has Cornelia as Deb of the Year.
Tuesday, January 4, 1983
I had dinner with Chris at the Post House on 63 rd Street to decide once and
for all what his money participation in my Decorative Photography
portfolio would be, and we hashed it out. And Chris is so cheap—cheap in
ways you’d never even dream of. And it’s like Bob. And Paul Morrissey.
They want more and more. And Bob was just back from a grand weekend
and he gets these ideas that he should live like royalty, and he gets very
unhappy if he doesn’t get more and more, and I mean, he should just marry
one of these old bags and get everything he wants (dinner $130).
Thursday, January 6, 1983
When I got to the office Vincent handed me a letter. It was from Bob. He
quit. No one at the office knows except Gael and Robert and Fred. And I
hear he has the agent named Janklow, a big literary lawyer. I wonder if Jann
Wenner’s offered him a job because he’s been having meetings with him
lately, but I don’t think so, because they’d never get along. I’m happy for
Bob. Really I am. But I mean, he should have kept working until we found
a replacement. It’s awful of him to just leave with no notice. Fred called and
talked to him but nothing changed. I think Thomas Ammann must have
encouraged him. Thomas has gotten so grand, too. I mean, I see people that
I knew so long ago, and suddenly they have airs.
So nobody at the office knows except the people I said. But (laughs),
everybody outside the office knows. But this has been building up for a
while. Before Bob went away for the holidays I’d told him he could have
any painting he wanted for Christmas and he said a Hammer & Sickle, and I
only have two of those and I said, “Gee, Bob, just anything but that,” and he
got mad. But Bob has gotten so grand, he goes to these rich people’s places
and he thinks he should have it all, too. But magazine editors don’t make
that much. And Bob made so much off other things— he got commissions
on the portraits and he has 50 percent of that Bruno photography portfolio.
But what he really wanted was 50 percent of Interview—at least I think he
said 50, I couldn’t really hear if he was saying 50 or 15. I told him then that
he could have a percentage of the profits, when Interview started making
some profits, but it’s not making any yet. And then he said that it was. But
it’s just not. And if Bob was smart, he could have just hired someone to do
the routine things that he does for Interview and just overseen the magazine,
do it freelance. I think maybe that’s what Fred’s going to ask him to do.
Anyway, I think he’ll be back.
And John Powers brought a possible portrait by—a plastic surgeon from
Horida. And Mr. LeFrak came while they were there and John was great, he
embarrassed Mr. LeFrak into finally accepting the portraits—he told him
what more do you want, and then later he told me, “I can’t believe you
made him look so good.”
So I got home about 7:00, dropped Jay (cab $5). Decided to stay home,
talked on the phone to Christopher and Fred.
You know, about Bob leaving, it’s not about money, because he was
making a lot. And it’s not about the Hammer & Sickle, because if it wasn’t
about that it would have been about something else. He’s been leading up to
this for a long time. Maybe he’s going into business with Thomas Ammann,
too. Because Bob is good at selling art. If a person says they don’t want a
portrait, Bob will just make a face and walk away. And he’s not shy about
asking people to pay their bills. Even Fred is a little shy about that. But Bob
isn’t. If he’s got a good new job I’m happy for him. He just shouldn’t have
quit with no notice. That’s the bad thing, it’s not professional.
Friday, January 7, 1983
The newspapers had a lot of Bob Colacello items and the office was still
buzzing about it. Jane Holzer called and said that Steve Rubell had told her
and then I changed the subject and asked her what was new with her, and
she said, “You’re so cool about all this,” and what else can I be? I mean …
but it’s a big savings for the office payroll. Fred doesn’t think we should
rush into hiring a new editor—Robert Hayes has been so nice we’ll just see
what he can do.
Nick Rhodes of Duran Duran came to the office and he brought his
girlfriend, Julie Anne. He’s twenty and she’s twenty-three. He was wearing
twice as much makeup as she was, although he’s half as tall.
Saturday, January 8, 1983
It was a day of buzzing on the phone about Bob. There were more items in
the paper saying that Bob was taking my favorite secretary, Doria Reagan,
away. Bob’s drunk with this newspaper power, getting items in the columns,
because I mean, people just forget this stuff in a minute.
Tuesday, January 11, 1983
Vincent broke the news that the LeFrak portraits were coming back down,
that the pupils were left out of the eyes and there was a spot on the face. So
just when I thought I’d seen the last of them … It’s like Night of the Living
Portraits.
And Gael Love came to tell me how well the magazine’s doing, but I
never know whether to believe her because she’s always so enthusiastic
about everything. And Robert Hayes is being really sweet, I guess because
he thinks he might be upped to editor.
Grace Jones came by in her macho outfit with a big raving beauty
Swedish guy, like 6’6”. Hans Lundgren. And we shook hands and it was
strange because he had such a weak handshake, really wimpy. And Grace
looked great.
Talked to Jon who’s in L.A.
Wednesday, January 12, 1983
Chris was at the office and showed me the photographs he took in Aspen
and he wants to use them for his monthly page of photographs in Interview
and I told him he had to fix some things. I mean, he had Barry Diller in
photographs with people he wouldn’t want to be in photographs with, and
Barry’s Jon’s boss.
And Grace Jones came by with her Swedish boyfriend. And I gave her a
speech about how she should look more normal or no one would hire her.
It’s the same speech I gave Debbie Harry after I saw Videodrome, that she
should just be normal-looking, keep her hair red so she could get the Faye
Dunaway parts.
Then Barbara Allen also came down, she’s now going with this really
rich multi-multi-guy Henrik de Kwiatkowski, and everybody’s hoping
she’ll this time get married. But Barbara’s really changed a lot. She’s like
one of these older women now. Like the Roxanne Pulitzer one. She still
looks good, but it’s the attitude. I’m not putting her down, she’s really
sweet, but it’s just an attitude change. They go from being a girl to this kind
of woman. So this is the guy C.Z. was dating for a little while after her
husband died.
We went to see Peter Pan (tickets $10). And that was great. Disney still
holds up, the drawing and the color (food $5). And then on the way out I
opened a door and knocked over a little girl. What’s wrong with her parents,
taking her to the movies at 10:00 at night! I felt so horrible—it happened
because of those doors that go two ways.
Friday, January 14, 1983
Got to the new building and I thought everything would be all done, but it
was the same old workmen still working. I couldn’t stand it. And I saw
where my painting area will be—it’s down there in the dark, in the
basement. I thought that was just going to be for storage. It looks like
something we shouldn’t be doing. I mean, when I go down to 860
Broadway it’s sunny and so bright in the front that you feel good. I may just
find another place to paint in. The Great Jones Street building might be
good. Or I may move up to the “Entertainment Area” on the third floor,
which is the terrace covered with glass, because it’s light there. But I don’t
know what we’re doing with all this space! Fred has this huge area and
what’s he going to do in it? Nobody will ever see anybody anymore. Brigid
has this huge entranceway, and Vincent has this big area for his TV things.
It’s fine for Interview to have a lot of space because it makes sense, but I
don’t know why we don’t just go into the real estate business and rent most
of it out.
And I thought we were going to have a huge great elevator, but the
elevator is 1” X 1”. I didn’t want to think about it, so I just began screaming
at everybody.
So I got home and I watched Rebel Without a Cause, and gee, it was so
strange to see Sal Mineo looking like a baby, just a real real baby, and
James Dean and Dennis Hopper look like grown men. You can’t figure out
what this young thing is doing with them, and yet they’re all supposed to be
the same age. And James Dean looked so modern—the jeans and the
Lacoste shirt and the red windbreaker, and leaning over with no underwear
showing. And Natalie Wood looked her best in this, an American Teenager.
And Dennis looked so good. And it was sad. The maid was left over from
Imitation of Life and she had the St. Christopher medal and she said, “Why
couldn’t he have somebody?” about poor little Sal Mineo. It was sad.
Because James Dean had his head on Natalie’s lap and then Sal Mineo
came and put his head on James Dean’s stomach and then he fell asleep and
then James Dean and Natalie tiptoed away because they wanted to go kiss
and be romantic, and it was sad, he didn’t have anybody.
Tuesday, January 25, 1983
I saw the tape I did for the first of the TV shows Vincent’s shooting.
They’re for the Madison Square Garden Network and they’ll be on cable
TV. It’s interviews with people talking into the camera. Susan Blond was a
little corny and I was terrible. Reeeallly reeeallly peculiar. I’m just a freak. I
can’t change it. I’m too unusual. It was really bad—I was on top of the
Empire State Building introducing the guys who light the buildings.
Thursday, January 27, 1983— New York—
Atlantic City, New Jersey—New York
I was going down later to Atlantic City, my first time, with Diana Ross to
see the Frank Sinatra show and bring a print of the portrait I did of her
down to the guy who owns the Golden Nugget. Diana had just signed a
contract with the Golden Nugget to play in this room, they’re paying her a
lot, and she’s never played a small room before, so she wanted to see it.
And I had a fight with the assistant art director girl at Interview, I called
her dumb, but then I cooled down. It was like Mr. Brodovich, the famous
art director at Bazaar, when he used to scream at me. You know, it was just
people doing what they want to do after you tell them what to do. But Fred
told me that you can get more out of people if you tell them they’re dumb in
a nice way, so the situation cooled down.
And the Twiggy cover came out so bad—it was so ugly, Twiggy in a
snood—that we’re going to use a Robert Risko caricature for the cover.
Because Vanity Fair is coming out and they’re stealing all our artists, so we
wanted to get this look out first since it’s going to be their look.
Then suddenly it was 5:00 and I had to be home by 5:15 when Diana
Ross was picking me up to go to the helicopter (cab $5.50). Just had time to
put my contacts in. The doorbell rang and it was just Diana alone, so I was
nervous. Then we went to the 60th Street place and got a Pan Am helicopter
that the Golden Nugget was paying for.
We had to wait a few minutes for her lawyer, and also going down with
us was Frank Sinatra’s tailor who had an Italian name but looked Jewish.
And I liked the lawyer, there was something adorable about him. I’ve
noticed that all these people on top have a twinkle in their eye, their eyes
twinkle. And he kept calling Los Angeles all night because of the big floods
there, to find out if his house had gone down the drain with his wife and
kids. As a matter of fact, everybody from California was calling to find out
if their houses were still there. Diana called, too. And you’d hear things
from the phone like, “Oh no! The neighbor’s house just went!”
I told Diana she should really marry Barry Diller and she said how could
she take a girlfriend’s man—meaning Diane Von Furstenberg. I told her she
really had to do more movies.
And we talked about David Geffen. I told her she should really be
friends with him again because he was in with that crowd, and she said that
they had been really good friends, that he was so great to her when her
mother had cancer, he took her to Sloan-Kettering when she had no idea at
all what to do, and I asked her when this was and she said, “Last year.” So I
said, “Well, what happened?” And she sort of said Dreamgirls, the musical
that’s about the Suprêmes but they don’t call them the Suprêmes. Geffen
produced it. She said that at first she was going to sue but then she didn’t.
And Diana tips people herself and does everything herself. It’s really
great.
And as we left New York the skyline was so beautiful.
When we got to Atlantic City the guy who met us was somebody who
Edmund Gaultney had brought to the office once. He took us to the Golden
Nugget and it turns out his brother, Steve Wynn, owns it. He was there with
his wife and kids, and they’re a good-looking American family—I couldn’t
tell if they were Italian or Jewish.
And Diana couldn’t decide which of two outfits to wear. I said I’d be her
hairdresser and decide, but then I couldn’t decide, either. She finally put on
a skimpy white dress, but then later changed her mind and wore tight black
pants and a top. So I got a tour of the Golden Nugget and that was exciting.
There were literally eighteen restaurants, and Victorian was the style for
everything. I asked the guy why everything was Victorian and he said
nobody gambled if it looks modern.
We went up an escalator five stories high. They said they’d send a plane
for me whenever I wanted, but when I said I wasn’t a gambler they dropped
me. Diana is a big gambler, though, but she hasn’t gambled there yet.
Then they said that Frank Sinatra always goes on on time and so we got
to the room and it’s about 500 seats. They sell 200 and then give 300 to the
high rollers. Frank came on and he did all his songs and it was great.
And he introduced Diana Ross and me in the audience, he said, “We
have two fabulous, famous people in the audience, each in their own fields,
one an artist, one a singer,” and the introduction went on for a long time.
And Barbara Sinatra was between us. She was wearing a little black dress,
she looks great. I couldn’t think of what to say so I asked her if her son was
still dating Barbara Allen, although I knew he wasn’t.
Afterward we went to their suite and for the first time Frank shook
hands with me. And gee, he looks great. How old is he? About sixty-seven?
And he doesn’t wear a toupee. I’m sure. I’m an expert, and I really would
say absolutely not—I think he’s maybe had transplants and that they look
really good. And the tailor was there measuring for suits, and he was
straight but he was kissing and hugging all these guys like a gay seamstress.
It was so camp. And I didn’t have my camera so I didn’t take pictures, but
anybody who tried to, the security people put their hands over the camera in
sort of a great way.
Frank said he was doing a song on his next album with Michael Jackson,
and Diana said, “Why don’t you do one with we?”
When Diana and I were alone for a moment, I told her that there were so
many people with “funny names” here, and she pushed her nose sideways
and said, “You mean like this?” And it was funny, it looked so Mafia. Home
at 12:00.
Friday, January 28, 1983
Benjamin picked me up and we went on the usual rounds. We went over to
Madison and I spotted Bob Colacello walking along the street. My first
reaction was to change my direction and go the other way, but then I
decided to catch up to him and talk to him, get it over with. I followed him
into the chic little brick colonial Bank of New York on Madison. At first the
guard tried to kick me out, but I made it over to Bob. This is Benjamin’s
bank, too, which is funny, because he has to come up from the dumpy
Lower East Side to go to it.
So I said, “Oh hi, Bob. I was with Diana Ross last night and she took me
to see Frank Sinatra and gee, I know you’ve been trying to interview him
for so long and last night he said he’d probably do it, so do you still want to
do it?” I was just trying to bring everything back to a friendly level, but Bob
was so sour. I guess he does hate … well, so he said, “My agent, Mort
Janklow, would never permit me to do that.” So I said, “Well, uh, gee, okay
Bob, it’s great to see you, really great.” So I left the bank feeling so moody.
And then to make it worse, it was one of those times I tried to give people
Interviews and they refused them (cab $4.50, phone $.50).
I was then in the neighborhood of Doc Cox and so I stopped in to chit-
chat. Rosemary is out for a couple of months, he said, because she got
hepatitis. And did I ever mention that she once told me that a man came in
with a vacuum cleaner attached to his cock? That’s a good one. So I tried to
get Doc Cox to confirm what I’d been hearing about Henry Post, that he has
AIDS and now he’s sinking fast. He picked up a virus from his cat. He’s in
New York Hospital.
Monday, January 31, 1983
I watched Chinatown on TV. Why isn’t Robert Towne writing great things
like that now?
Went to meet Lidija (cab $6) and worked out. Then had an appointment
to see Keith Haring in Soho (cab $3.50). Went with Chris and Peter. He
rents a huge studio without a bathroom for a thousand dollars, and it’s great.
And there was this Puerto Rican kid sitting there, and I asked what he did
and Keith said the kid does the writing in Keith’s graffiti paintings, so I got
confused, I don’t know what Keith does. He paints around the words, I
guess.
Wednesday, February 2, 1983
Was dropped by Benjamin (cab $10) at 277 Park, the Chemical Bank
building with the big solarium on the ground floor. A meeting about
financing our new building. You can really see how these banks are
spending all the money. About thirty executives were eating with us—Fred
and Vincent met me there—and for each one there was a black waiter.
And the bank buys all this cheap art, like it’s from a drugstore or
something, and then they put a plaque in. I don’t know, maybe this will be
the art to collect, who knows, but God….
And they put in stairways going from one floor to the next, as if you’re
getting married. Those kind of stairways.
Fred was going off to California with Gael Love and Barbara Colacello
to promote Interview. Fred’s reading all his old Vogues and Vanity Fairs
again for ideas, which is great, he’s working more with Interview.
Thursday, February 3, 1983
Went to Antonio’s show at Parsons with Jon (cab $4). It was really crowded
and I got mobbed for autographs, and I was signing away, and Grace Jones
was refusing to sign autographs, telling the girls and boys to get lost, but
then when she saw me signing so much, I think she got embarrassed, so she
came over and explained that her public liked it better when she treated
them that way. I couldn’t believe her.
Then to the Keith Haring opening (cab $4). It was on the Lower East
Side, at the Fun Gallery, it’s called. So we walked into the place and there’s
René Ricard, and he’s screaming, “Oh my God! From the sixties to the
eighties and I’m still seeing you everywhere!” And I said how could he
have said all those awful things about me in the Edie book and he said that I
should have seen it before they cut it.
And Keith’s show looked good, it was his pictures hanging on a
background of his pictures. Like my Whitney retrospective show was—all
hung on top of my Cow wallpaper. We left there and Chris and Peter wanted
to go to the Coach House, naturally, because it was the most expensive
place.
Friday, February 4, 1983
It was freezing out.
Steve Rubell called and said he was sending tickets to the Joan Rivers
thing at Carnegie Hall that night and invited me to Calvin’s for drinks
before the show. He also told me that he’d sent Bob over to see about the
Page Six job at the Post, but that they couldn’t believe the expense account
he was asking for. I knew these places don’t pay much, just from the days
when I used to work for Harper’s Bazaar. I guess you get perks, but ten
years ago The New York Times sent a letter to all the writers saying that they
could accept absolutely nothing for a gift. I guess Diana Vreeland, though,
used to get so much, so many shoes and dresses.
Went to Calvin’s on Central Park West (cab $4). I asked Steve if he’d
invited Bob Colacello and he said no, that since Bob wasn’t working for
anyplace why invite him. Calvin had fourteen boys and one girl—Sue
Mengers. Barry Diller was there and Sandy Gallin, the big agent.
It was fun talking to Sue, she’s such a pig. Then we went in limos to
Carnegie Hall. Steve gave us two seats way off, separated from the center
seats that he had.
Joan Rivers came on with her boa, and she’s funny, but I don’t know
how she can say the things she does and get away with it, how she’s not
sued. Like she said that Richard Simmons is carrying Rex Reed’s baby, and
she says that Christina Onassis looks like an ape, and she did a thing about
Nancy Reagan picking her nose with a breadstick. But then afterwards
everybody was talking like her, so I guess she’s popular.
Saturday, February 5, 1983
Catherine Guinness is in town. She’s staying at her old apartment, she kept
it. And she’s getting married to the lord who dresses like the nineteenth
century, Jamie, so there’s dinners for her. She’s been calling every day, she
wants to go out.
Sunday, February 6, 1983
Went to church. Worked some more on drawings. Went to bed early. The
phone didn’t ring all day.
Monday, February 7, 1983
Went to get black-tied for the Newsweek party. Lincoln Center by cab ($4).
It was a boring party. No stars. Just Nancy Reagan and President and Mrs.
Carter. Basically it was a big office party. The show of past Newsweek
covers was interesting. Through all these years, it was all war war war. We
wanted to leave early to go to Marianne Hinton’s party for Catherine on
East 57th Street (cab $5).
Catherine’s husband-to-be was there, Lord Neidpath. He was in
Interview once as a “First Impression.” I met him a few years ago. He has
long black curly hair and he looks like he stepped out of the sixties, like
right off the King’s Road—britches, and a silk jacket. And Fred was there
and Shelley Wanger and Steve Aronson. So Catherine’s going to be a lady.
Thursday, February 10, 1983
I invited Jane Holzer to the Rolling Stones’ party for their movie opening
because she was the one who introduced me to them in the sixties in the
first place and she wanted to feel young again. Jane looked great. Cab to the
Corso on East 86th Street, got there right at the right time. There were 100
policemen ($3).
And a freelance photographer kid took my picture and said that the
National Enquirer had called him about getting a picture of me for the
cover. What can that be for? A palimony suit? Dying of cancer? It made me
nervous trying to think.
Missed a call from Jon in Las Vegas where Paramount was having their
seventieth anniversary party.
Friday, February 11, 1983
The snow hadn’t started at the beginning of the day and I just didn’t believe
it would, the weather reports are always wrong. But by 12:30 it’d started
(cabs $5, $3, phone $.50).
Interview was having a screening of The Lords of Discipline at
Paramount and I was afraid we wouldn’t be able to get around so I hired a
limousine. And then I went into Interview and invited some of the kids to
ride up with me, and then Fred screamed at me that I had destroyed the
office protocol. I keep forgetting that at Interview they have all these levels
of who gets invited to what with who, based on how important your title is.
Like a regular office. And I didn’t invite Robert Hayes to ride up with me
because he was with his sister and his boyfriend Cisco, and Cisco has AIDS
so I didn’t want to be that close to him.
People in the streets were laughing and throwing snow.
The movie was great, I enjoyed it so much, it’s so decadent. There are
no girls in it, and all these boys fighting. Mitchell Lichtenstein looks great,
just like his father, Roy, twenty years ago, and I do think David Keith is
going to be the new John Wayne.
Sunday, February 13, 1983
It was all snow outside and it was beautiful, not too cold. Went to church.
Nelson Lyon called and we gossiped. And he said that Paul Morrissey
had talked to Bob Colacello this summer on some Greek island where they
were freeloading off Thomas Ammann and Bob told Paul that he was
thinking of quitting because I still didn’t know how to spell his name. Well
listen, I always thought it was stupid for him to change how he spelled his
name, and then not really change it—to just drop the “i” from “Colaciello.”
I mean if Bob expected me to spell it, he should have made it a really
simple name—something that I could spell.
Tuesday, February 15, 1983
Woke up with the same old unhappiness and crud. Oh, but Lucy is making
me happy this morning. I Love Lucy. She’s so funny. She’s at the Brown
Derby with Ethel and Fred, and she stared at William Holden so he’s staring
at her while she eats spaghetti and Ethel has to cut off the strands. Oh it’s
good. She’s disguised and her fake nose catches on fire! It’s the funniest
one.
Called Catherine about the lunch we were having for her that afternoon
at the office. She invited about thirty people.
Was picked up by Benjamin and went to Doc Cox’s and saw Rosemary
who’s back. She says she stays up listening to Mahler and reading icon
books and she goes to work at 4:00 in the morning and finishes at 10:00.
Left there and went to Sotheby’s but they tried to make me check my
bags, and I told them no, and then they wouldn’t let me in so I walked out, I
told them they were losing my business for good. I mean, it’s my “purse.”
Ladies don’t have to check their purses, so why should I?
Forgot to say that Diana Ross sent me a big bowl of candy kisses and
she’s so sweet, I have to send her something. It looked like she could have
wrapped this up herself.
Oh, and Crazy Matty had been up at 860 and left the worst letter, it was
crazy like Hinckley or something.
And Bob Colacello was invited to our lunch for Catherine but he turned
it down by saying, “I have to go to a meeting with my agent.”
Wednesday, February 16, 1983
Another lunch at the office for Catherine. She said she became great friends
with Bob Dylan in England. I guess she’s doing a lot of entertaining,
showing her houses. She’s wild, Catherine. She learned a lot from Tom
Sullivan.
Watched Dynasty. Joan Collins is so good. And they took the bandages
off the fairy son’s face, and it’s so funny, it’s like the men are now doing all
the old Bette Davis and Joan Crawford things—like when you “remove the
bandages.”
Thursday, February 17, 1983
It was a beautiful spring day, almost. I had a lunch date with Lady Sharon
and Jill Fuller at “21,” it was Jill’s birthday and I brought her a Dollar Sign.
I was surprised to look at her hand and not see a wedding ring, and she said
that it was over already—he was just some kid she’d met in a discotheque.
He called her an old bag or something and she threw him out.
I told them the real story of Bob’s quitting after I wouldn’t give him the
Hammer & Sickle painting. And when I later got back to the office and told
Fred that I’d made a mistake and told it, he got mad and he said that now
it’ll be in the papers. Which I guess is true. And Jill and Sharon said that
people were going to drop Bob. And actually, Jill and Sharon are the kind of
people who would drop Bob. And Sharon said, “Bob’s a friend of mine, but
he is moody and it’s hard to take.”
But you know, it’s true, all those people are really going to drop Bob if
he doesn’t have a column someplace. They just want to be in a column—
that’s what they have him over for!
Oh, and that Iranian lady, you know, Bob’s friend, Mercedes Kellogg,
Sharon was telling me what a fat thing Mercedes was and that Sharon
helped her and got her to lose forty pounds and now she’s dyed her hair
blonde and is a big hostess, and she doesn’t even call Sharon.
Saturday, February 26, 1983
The night of the Roy Cohn party. Cab to Studio ($5). Ethel Merman sang
“Happy Birthday.” And Ivana Trump was there and she came over and
when she saw me she was embarrassed and she said, “Oh, whatever
happened to those pictures?” and I had this speech in my mind of telling her
off, and I was undecided whether to let her have it or not, and she was
trying to get away and she did.
Poor Earl Wilson must have had a stroke. He was there and he can
hardly walk, he just sort of scratches his feet along the ground, so I guess
that’s why he’s not doing his column so much anymore.
Monday, February 28, 1983
Benjamin picked me up and we tried to feed the big gingerbread house that
little Berkeley Reinhold had given me for Christmas to the pigeons in the
park. But they didn’t like gingerbread and they didn’t like candy. And I tried
to get rid of some fruitcake, too, and they didn’t like that, either, so I feel
like just letting them starve. I mean, what do they want? They do like nuts
though, so maybe I’ll bring them some peanuts sometime. Okay, so then we
went downtown ($6).
Then met Lidija, worked out, then joined the lunch that was going on for
Tom Armstrong, Sandy Brant, David Whitney, and Philip Johnson. They
were there to try to talk me into giving the Whitney all my old movies and
they’d restore them and catalogue them and show them, but I don’t know.
Vincent says I have to because these people are friends. But I think maybe
we should work ourselves on somehow trying to make them commercial. I
told these people that when you describe these movies they always sound
better than they actually are, and that if people really saw things like Sleep
and Eat they’d think they were boring. I also told them that I wouldn’t be an
easy sell, that Tom Armstrong would have to entertain me at the
Knickerbocker Club. Which is what was supposed to be happening,
anyway, but Vincent just wanted to get this lunch out of the way fast. So
they said sure, and we’ll do that, so I guess they think that I’ll do it, but I
don’t know if I actually will or not. I’m deciding.
Then I was meeting Paige Powell after that at the Berkshire Hotel, the
one where the Rolling Stones stayed, because there was a menswear
convention there, and she thought it would be a good place to leave
Interviews and try to sell ads. I like Paige (cab $4). It was incredible there—
every jacket was the same, every sweater was the same. Five floors of
clothes and they were all the same.
Cabbed to meet Chris and Peter and Maura Moynihan. Then down to the
Bottom Line to see Lou Reed (cab $8). And Lou’s lyrics you can
understand now (drinks $140.08) and the music was really loud. He did a
lot of familiar songs but you didn’t recognize them, they sounded different.
Lou’s in A.A. now, and he’s also working out, getting definition, getting
trim. Chris was trying to clean Maura’s fingernails because they were dirty.
And she had a spot on her dress that she said she just got but it looked old. I
mean, she’s Irish.
Wednesday, March 2, 1983
Victor told me he saw Jon at a gay club but I didn’t say anything to Jon.
And Chris keeps wanting to know if he can collect on the watch that I
promised him if Jon would … and I told him no, not yet. [NOTE: Although
Jon Gould continued to keep an apartment of his own, he was now living
inAndy’s house, in the fourth-floor guest room.} And I was worn out from
Victor telling me all the gossip about Halston, it made me nervous, about
Halston throwing him out of the car and about Liza wearing a YSL. And
this is the night I was going to the party for Liza’s father at MOMA.
And it was strange, because as Victor was telling me about all these
fights with Halston he was screaming at me for not being a close close
friend to Halston, accusing me of remaining on the surface and taking the
benefits without the responsibility. Which I do do because I just don’t want
to be that close to Halston because he can really turn on you.
Steve Rubell called while I was talking to Victor and he wanted to go to
MOMA with us, and so I told him that Jane Holzer and I first were going to
the Claus von Bulow party for Catherine.
Called Victor and he said he was going to MOMA as Mrs. Halston. The
new secretary said that Halston wouldn’t be providing transportation, so I
guess the times are changing.
Thursday, March 3, 1983
How could Tennessee Williams choke on a bottlecap, do you think? How
could that happen?
Friday, March 4, 1983
Mrs. Vreeland called for Fred and she was talking in a lower-than-usual
voice. I think about her and think what it’ll be like, thirty more years of life.
Monday, March 7, 1983
I went to Dr. Silver the pimple doctor (cab $7) and he said I should drink
more water, and I will, but I’m not sure I like peeing a lot, because then I’d
have to go home more because I don’t like to use public bathrooms at all.
Tuesday, March 8, 1983
Jon called from California and said he’d make it on time for the Bette
Midler show and he did. At the end she did a serious thing where she broke
down and thanked the kids who’d slept in line to get tickets. Jann Wenner
was behind me and he said, “What is Bob Colacello doing?” and then he
tried to make it sound intriguing that he had lunch with him. I said, “Why
don’t you hire him?”
The show was over at 11:30 and I was home at 11:45. Didn’t go to the
Club A party for Bette.
Wednesday, March 9, 1983
Brigid had a fight with the whole office about stealing a grapefruit and then
Paige screamed that someone had stolen her scarf.
At 3:30 I went to 35 West 31st Street to a big studio where I was being
shot for a commercial for the city for the Brooklyn Bridge. And I guess they
got me on the rebound from Woody Allen, because on my dialogue sheet all
the lines said “WOODY.” The lines were: “That’s art,” “Perhaps in red,”
and “A masterpiece.”
Thursday, March 10, 1983
At the office the phone rang and they told me it was Henry Post’s friend
Todd and I got goosebumps. Somehow I knew what it was. And he told me
Henry had died—he got another cyst in his head from the virus that he got
from his cat. I may have forgotten to tell the Diary that I called him last
week in the hospital and I woke him up, and I felt so bad. I asked him what
I could get him and he said nothing, that there was nothing he wanted. He
told me he was really weak and had to get off and he said that he didn’t
know if he was going to make it.
And I begin to wonder if Doc Cox is any good. I don’t even know if
they really check my blood right. Maybe Henry would have been better off
with one of those boy-disease specialists.
And Lords of Discipline—Paramount’s decided not to advertise it
anymore because it won’t take off. It’s just doing okay, $9 million. But then
what I don’t understand at all is why on Entertainment Tonight they put
down the Paramount movie Lords of Discipline when they could just not
mention it, since Entertainment Tonight is Paramount’s. I just wish I could
understand the psychology but I’m baffled. Why should they go on TV and
say their own movie was slipping when they could just ignore it? I just wish
I could get it.
Friday, March 11, 1983
Brigid’s knitting away, making a replacement for the cashmere Halston
scarf that I lost last spring that I loved so much. How is it possible to lose a
nine-foot scarf? I still don’t know. And Christopher was with me and he
didn’t see me lose it, either. Nine feet of red scarf and nobody noticed.
Sunday, March 13, 1983
Halston called to invite me over to dinner. He’s getting so grand, he was
saying things about “$3 billion” and “J.C. Penney” and I don’t know what it
means, except he let things slip about “selling out” and I guess he has
actually sold out and will be having his name on cheap stuff. I guess that’s
what it’s all about and that’s what he’s worried about, he’s not sure he’s
doing the right thing.
I get so nervous with Halston because I don’t want to say the wrong
thing and get him mad, because he’s our tenant in Montauk and I don’t want
to blow it. He wanted to gossip, but I just said things that I knew were out
already.
Monday, March 14, 1983
I went to 47th Street to see Boris who hasn’t had anything new in so long,
he was crying poor. Nobody’s buying and nobody’s selling for some strange
reason. And no auctions, either.
Rupert called and said Ron Feldman wanted me to come right down to
the gallery on Greene Street and sign prints. I said to tell him to fuck off,
that I’d be down when I felt like it. And then Ron called himself and said
that he would give me my check if I came down, and then I felt like it. He
said he’d send someone for me, because I said I didn’t want to go down
alone, so Rupert came up in a cab for me—I’d thought he was going to send
a limo. So I went down there and Ron took me into his office and said,
“And now we’re going to talk about sheets and pillowcases.” I said, “No.
We’re not.” I said, “Well sonny, I’ve turned down millions of dollars in
deals for sheets and pillowcases and I’m not going to do it for you”
I left with Robert who works for Rupert (cab $5).
Tuesday, March 15, 1983
It was a beautiful day. Walked on the street and a little kid, she was six or
seven, with another kid, yelled, “Look at the guy with the wig,” and I was
really embarrassed, I blew my cool and it ruined my afternoon. So I was
depressed.
Monday, March 21, 1983
Benjamin walked me over to the Knickerbocker Club where I was having
lunch with Tom Armstrong and Sandy Brant who flew up from Florida just
for the lunch, and David Whitney and Fred and Vincent. They’re all still
trying to get my movies for the Whitney Museum, but I haven’t said yes
yet. I don’t want to, but Vincent and Fred are against me.
The Knickerbocker Club is really chic, really rich. I guess I made a
mistake saying “cock” in the big room because David Whitney almost died,
but then he said “fuck” about five times. We had drinks in the dining room
and then went into our own little dining room. The food was great. We had
champagne and that finished me off for the rest of the day. They toasted me,
although I haven’t given my answer yet (cab $6).
Interview was moving to the new building, and they were complaining
because they had to move in the rain. Seeing Interview move made me have
to face the fact that I’ll have to move out of 860 soon, too. But after they
left, seeing all that clear empty space, it was just so beautiful that now I
don’t want to leave. With all my stuff, I could probably fill up the whole
new building.
Wednesday, March 23,1983
It was great having this big empty place now. Like the loft I always wanted.
Jennifer is answering the phones at the office because she’s on Easter break,
and she’s mostly sitting on Robyn’s lap. We got tickets for the opening of
the New Art show at the Whitney, the Biennial. And the show is just like the
sixties. And Keith Haring is so big, he flew from Japan to New York for
three days and then to Paris. These kids are selling everything—Jean
Michel Basquiat’s show sold out in Los Angeles.
Friday, March 25, 1983
Princess Pignatelli came down, her husband has 200 photographs of me that
he wants me to sign. And I talked to him on the phone and I was talking to a
wall. I said, “But they’re your photographs, why do you want me to sign
them?” and he’d say, “But they’re of you,” and I’d say, “But they’re your
photographs.” Two hundred prints. So we left it that way.
And Ina Ginsburg was there and her son Mark, and she wants the
portraits redone and one thing she wants me to change is the color of her
hair. And Mark took me aside and said, “It’s because it reminds her of the
concentration camp. She doesn’t want to think of herself as that brown-
haired person.”
Decided to see The Outsiders which was just opening, and I loved it, it
was like watching Lonesome Cowboys. You can’t believe it—young boys
with dyed hair reading poetry in the sunset. The Sal Mineo type. And then
they’re in this old church hiding and the boy says, “All I really want you to
do is read Gone with the Wind out loud to me.” And all the boys are so cute.
And this schmaltzy music playing as if the boys are going to kiss. Things
were all cut up so they didn’t make sense. It was like seeing Bruce Weber
photographs. Every boy was a raving beauty.
Sunday, March 27, 1983
I got a cab to the Whitney in the rain (cab $4, admission $5) to see the
Biennial again. And it’s sure different from when I used to go in the fifties
—then it was small paintings and—now it’s —well, it’s an interesting show.
There were two Frank Stellas, two Jasper Johnses, and then Keith Haring is
the only one of the young artists in it that I know. When kids like Ronnie
start to paint badly, everybody starts to copy it. It’s strange. We were there
for about two hours. I only had to sign a couple of autographs (cab $5). It
was still raining.
Decided to stay in and watch The Thorn Birds. It was sick, all these
people trying to make one priest.
Tuesday, March 29, 1983
I’m trying to figure out if these episodes of I Love Lucy where they go to
Europe were done before or after Auntie Mame. They were about the same
time, I think, but I wish I knew which was first.
Oh, the day before Julian Schnabel called and he was in the hospital
where his wife just had a baby girl. And he was trying to sound excited.
Because everybody really only wants a boy. He already has a girl (supplies
$40).
And oh, I love my Enquirer gift subscription that someone gave me for
Christmas. Everything they say is true. But I have to hide them—I’m not
allowed to have them in the house, Jon doesn’t like me to read them.
Oh and I don’t think I’ve said yet how odd it was to see Nelson Lyon’s
name in Time a couple of weeks ago. As if he were a real person! (laughs)
Do you know what I mean? When they talk so importantly about someone
you know, it always looks so fake. Géraldine and I were talking about it.
She said, “Nelson won’t even talk to anybody now that he’s been in Time”
He’s going to be a key witness in the Belushi death trial—he was with
Belushi and De Niro the night Belushi O.D.’d.
Wednesday, March 30, 1983
Had a lunch for Susan Sarandon to interview her. She was so great. She’s a
liberal, from a big family, an ex-hippie, and she talked her head off till 4:00.
She’s like Viva, but she’s intelligent.
Thursday, March 31, 1983
Christopher called from the airport, he was on his way to his photography
opening in Washington at the Govinda Gallery. He was hoping for cherry
blossoms but I don’t think they’re there yet.
People are on Easter vacation. Stopped at the new building and got
Interviews to pass out. It was busy, worked at the office.
I arm-wrestled with Jay Shriver and he’s really strong. We don’t know
what from. He doesn’t work out. I could never beat him, I had to bite his
fingers. And he can do one-hand pushups and I can’t.
Friday, April 1,1983
I had to meet Miguel Bose (cab $6). He came to be photographed and to
work on the video thing. His mother’s a famous actress in Spain, and his
father’s a bullfighter.
He told me that his good friend was Joe MacDonald, so I guess maybe
he was trying to tell me something. But when I told him that Joe had AIDS,
I think I really told him something because he looked nervous and scared.
I see that Veronica and Muhammad Ali have split up, and I bet it’s
because of the big spending habits she learned from her best friend Ronnie
Levin because she went shopping all the time with him in Beverly Hills for
antiques and Muhammad would get all the bills.
Tuesday, April 5, 1983
Benjamin picked me up and we went over to Columbus Circle to the
Coliseum for the Art Expo to do an appearance with the mayor for the
signing of the Brooklyn Bridge posters for the city. And it’s such a different
crowd of people at these things. The photographers they send are different,
and the people from Time are different—it’s just a whole other league. I
guess we’re just spoiled, more sophisticated, you don’t realize these other
ways. And everything’s so organized, every last move. “Mayor walks in.
Mayor sits down. Mayor presents award”—everything is planned out.
Henry’s not working for the city now, but he was there. Bess Myerson took
his place, she’s the new cultural affairs commissioner.
I asked Jon if he wanted to see a screening and he said no, that he was
going off to a class. I don’t know what kind of class. He starts them and he
drops them. Writing, maybe.
Thursday, April 7, 1983
Jed called. It’s the first time in two years I’ve had a regular conversation
with him. He said Keith Richards wants to buy Patti Hansen a ruby and
wants to know where to get it appraised, but really, any place might switch
a stone on you. The only one I was sure wouldn’t is John Reinhold. Because
it happened to him in San Antonio—somebody switched a stone in what
he’d sold them and then said that he’d done it and so there wouldn’t be
trouble, he paid. Because you can never prove it. And even the reputable
places I think do it. Where it really happens is at auctions. You take it over
in a corner and look at it and you can switch it.
Benjamin picked me up and we went over to meet Paige Powell at Dino
De Laurentiis’s big store on Columbus (cab $3). I told the manager I knew
Dino and he took us to the basement and through the kitchen area which is a
block long. I asked them what they do with the leftovers and they said they
have poorhouses who come and take them. But I would think the employees
take most of it. Do you think at the poorhouses they’re eating pâté de foie
gras? And there was a lady cutting pasta as if it were a dress, really big.
Then we went to Salou florist. Gave an Interview to a cop. Went to
Charivari across the street. I was dropped off by Benjamin and Jay ($5).
Met Chris, Peter, and a friend of theirs who raises money for Democratic
candidates, he makes a thousand a week doing that. His last candidate lost.
He said the wife of the guy would put on her diamonds and her designer
dresses to go into the poor neighborhoods because she wanted him to lose
—she didn’t want to leave town and go to Washington. And she would say,
“I know how it must hurt all you poor people to see us come down here in
our rich clothes…” He said she was nuts. He told me that they have a
machine that puts stamps on letters crooked because then you get a better
response—more homey.
Monday, April 11,1983
Found out that Joe MacDonald died.
Cornelia was going with her boyfriend Roberto to the Xenon Oscar
thing we were hosting together—he’s the real estate developer that she goes
with who’s sweet, the one she went with seven empty suitcases to Milan
with and came back with eight filled ones, he bought her everything.
At Xenon Cornelia’s brother Alexander came by and so I sat with him
and he’s really dumb, I think. He’s in the jewelry department at Sotheby’s. I
guess he got the job because they thought with his name he could bring in
good estates. I asked him about what I was talking to Jed about the other
day—how stones can get switched when people take them over in a corner
to look at them, and he said that now they have a machine they put them
under after you’re done looking and before you take them to make sure
they’re the same stone.
I hated the awards, Meryl Streep was so cornball, and I couldn’t stand
Gandhi getting everything. I wish I hadn’t put my name as a host on this
party, though—you just make enemies of people you forget to invite. I got
away upstairs and sat with a kid from Germany I’d met.
Tuesday, April 12, 1983
Everyone was calling because the Village Voice ran a three-page putdown of
my wig. It was a writeup of the Studio 54 party for our TV show.
I was being picked up at 4:00 by Ron Feldman and his wife in a limo to
go up to the Museum of Natural History for my Endangered Species
opening. So they picked me up and she was wearing plastic jewelry, the
kind I collected years ago.
Rupert is getting tanner and tanner every day. Instead of working, he’s
going to the tanning places.
There was a crowd in front of the museum when we got there and I
thought it was for me, but they were filming a Disney movie. And then later
when we were coming out, the movie people were chasing a big rat that had
gotten into one of the actors’ trailers.
Originally they were going to have my show in the lobby, but then they
put it way back, so you had to go through the rooms of dinosaurs and
finally get to this little room where I was. But it looked great, really
beautiful. White-framed.
Thursday, April 14, 1983—New York—St. Martin
And I started the Isabel Eberstadt novel and the names sounded phony so I
only got ten pages into it and I stopped.
Easy ride, arrived (cab $10) in St. Martin at the Hotel La Samanna.
It’s the most beautiful place ever. Blue and white. So Jon, Chris, Peter,
and I had a house, Villa “M,” and checked in and ordered pina coladas. I
applied sun block and left it on the whole time. Dinner at the hotel was
really grand overlooking the balcony. You feel like a tourist the first day, but
then other people arrive after you and you feel like a veteran. Peter Martins
the dancer was there, he said hi (dinner $214.45).
Friday, April 15, 1983—St. Martin
The most beautiful day in the world. Photographed all day.
Saturday, April 16, 1983—St. Martin
It was a raving day. Blue sky and blue sea. Chris and Peter and Jon went
snorkeling. I walked to a wrecked ship and took pictures.
I finished White Mischief, it was about Kenya in the forties and the
English colonial swingers who were the Peter Beards of their day, living
there and being rich and wife-swapping. The woman wasn’t beautiful,
though—she was (laughs) a blonde who wore lipstick in Africa. You know?
After dinner we went to a gambling casino and started with $10 and Jon
won some money and I made him stop, I told him it was better to leave with
a few pennies in your pocket.
And I don’t know, I don’t know how I could be friends with Christopher.
He’s just like this aunt I had in Pittsburgh who I never wanted to see who
was always touching everything and had too much energy. The wife of my
uncle, my father’s brother. She just drove me crazy. And Chris is like that,
always touching everything. But he is there if you need him and he does
organize things, which is so much work in itself.
You know, I was thinking lately about my nice aunt, my mother’s sister,
and something that happened to me at her house once—she always gave me
pennies for candy and so I used to like to visit her, she was good to me, she
lived in a house on the North Side. And one day I remember she had a lady
over who had no teeth and the lady was eating a bowl of soup and she
didn’t finish it, and my aunt gave it to me and made me finish it, I guess
because she had no money and didn’t want to waste food …
Oh, and something funny about La Samanna! Outside were all these
beautiful red flowers on the bushes and then we looked close and saw that
they were taped on! They were real flowers, but taped on.
Sunday, April 17, 1983—St. Martin—New York
There was a fight at the Villa M between Chris and Jon and then Jon
screamed at Chris, “I could have your job!” meaning he could snap his
fingers and turn me against Chris and it made everybody feel odd.
Had to pay a tax to get off the island (4 x $5 = $20). St. Martin was half
French and half Dutch and the French half was cleaner.
Tuesday, April 19, 1983
Nona Summers called inviting me again to the dinner she was giving at
Regine’s that night. Maura met me there and she told me that Page Six had
asked her if I was sick. And I was shocked. I said, “Well, tell them I’m not!
You know I’m not! You can see I’m not!” And I know they meant AIDS and
it was too scary, and she said, “Oh they just meant flu.” But I’m sure they
didn’t. And then Marsia Trinder was there and she’s finally married to
Lenny Holzer, and she said, “Oh don’t get near me, I just had a baby.” I
said, “Marsia, you know, I mean …”
Wednesday, April 20, 1983
After asking Alexander Guest the other week how they make sure stones
don’t get switched at the auction house, I pick up the Post and it’s a big
front-page thing: “500G Diamond Stolen in Auction Switcheroo.” So I’m
half expecting the police to come and question me about why I was
pumping Alexander for information. And what happened was someone
painted a regular diamond with clear pink nail polish and switched it for the
expensive pink one.
Oh, and I look so bad I need a facelift. Makeup doesn’t do it, you still
see the sunken cheeks and the neck—you can’t hide the neck even with a
turtleneck.
The Debbie Harry wrestling play Teaneck Tanzi was at 6:45. I invited
John O’Connor from Interview and then Gael Love called up and said that
he could not go anywhere with me because he had to go to the Interview
party at Reginette’s. She was really trying to push me around, she said,
“And I want you there, too.” I said, “Oh fine, Gael, sure.” Gael is so pushy
now, Bob must have really kept her down.
Monday, April 25, 1983
The new issue of Interview with Chris Atkins on the cover really is a great
issue. Steve Aronson’s column is really good. We’re paying him a lot but
it’s the best writing we’ve had yet.
In the magazine section of the Sunday Times it was all the new young
Italian painters and it looks like America is really out. I’m going to have a
hard time now not getting put down.
Thursday, April 28, 1983
Cabbed to the Perry Ellis fashion show ($5.50) and right as we walked in
we ran smack in to Bob Colacello. And he was very pleasant. So pleasant,
and that was nice. He just got a job with Parade, that Sunday supplement
for newspapers.
Friday, April 29, 1983
Went to Si Newhouse’s on 70th off Lexington, and everybody from the art
past was there— Jasper and Roy and Leo—and it was so nutty, I couldn’t
take it, I got nervous and depressed and left before eating.
Sunday, May 1, 1983
Edies on the sides of the buses. The ads for the paperback. Poor Edie—
when she went out she’d never even take a cab, it had to be a limo, and now
they’ve got her on the bus.
Monday, May 2, 1983
Fred’s going to California soon for when Mrs. Vreeland gets the Rodeo
Drive award.
And I forgot to say that at the Newhouses’ the other night before I got
freaked out and left, Jasper and I talked and he was really nice, he said he
had a house on St. Martin and when I said I’d just been there he said his
house was right next to La Semana and that I could stay there anytime I
wanted.
Cabbed ($3) to Mr. Chow’s and had drinks with Diane Von Furstenberg,
Barry Diller, and Mrs. Chow, and next to my place was a place card that
said “Joan” and I asked, “Joan who?” and I couldn’t believe it when they
said Joan Collins. And she arrived and was wearing a fake white Halston.
She said she’s known Halston for years. And she did not have a line or
blemish on her face. She said she didn’t give interviews or do Carson or
anything, but that she would do one for Interview. But then later Robert
Hayes told me she’s been on the cover of everything. (laughs) I should start
telling people who invite me to things that I never go out but that I will go
out for them.
Wednesday, May 4, 1983
Did the routines with Benjamin. It started out warm but then got colder
(phone $.20). Had lunch at John’s Pizzeria and at the end they did
something great, they said, “This is on the house,” and I couldn’t believe it,
that never happens in regular places (tip to waiter $5)! This is the place
where Ara Gallant had us take Mary Tyler Moore to be interviewed.
Bought the New York Native because there’s a review of my Endangered
Species show in it ($1.25). Bought a copy of Steve Aronson’s book, Hype
(book $15.95, cab $4). Worked on art things. Then decided to go to Steve
Aronson’s party at Kathy Johnson’s house. She’s the one who’s so rich but
it’s not from Johnson & Johnson (cab $4). Everyone was there and it was
jammed. Lily Auchincloss. And Tom Wolfe, and Farley Granger, Jean
Vanderbilt, Terry Southern, the Hearsts, Dorothy Schiff. And just
everybody. And lots of young beauties. Had Steve autograph the book I
bought and I mean, why didn’t they send me a free copy? Baird Jones was
there and he said he’d read his father’s copy two weeks ago, so that’s when
I got mad. And Steve looked sort of scared. And there are other parties for
him coming up.
Saturday, May 7, 1983
Benjamin picked me up and then picked up John Reinhold and we went to
78th and Madison to that expensive Italian place, Sant Ambroeus. And
because they’re so expensive they do everything slllowwwly. They wrap
everything chicly ten times and you pay for their chic slowness.
And oh, my sister-in-law is in town and she calls and says she’s going to
come over some evening, but I keep saying I’m out of town. Her son James
doesn’t call anymore—he’s been in New York for about two years. He got a
place right across the 59th Street Bridge in Long Island City. So he’s
sticking it out. He does art freelance, he draws sort of Conan the Barbarian-
looking things.
Sunday, May 8, 1983
Decided to work at home on boxes. When you flatten out product boxes
they’re so beautiful.
I’ve noticed that People is putting people with problems on the cover.
Like the David Soul wife-beating cover, and now Kristy McNichol with her
breakdown. And I can see we’re going to be having problems getting people
for Interview covers from now on, because I think Rolling Stone is putting
the pressure on, telling people that if they want the Rolling Stone cover,
they can’t do Interview. But you know, our Interview with Sting on the
cover was the biggest seller yet, and all the music covers sell well, like
Michael Jackson and Diana Ross. And the reason I’m thinking that Rolling
Stone is starting to play tough is because we can’t get Travolta and we
couldn’t get Sean Penn. So we need to think of people to put on the cover,
young people, new kids. It’s got to be at the exact right time, not too early
or late.
Monday, May 9, 1983
Karen Burke called and I didn’t want to take the call, she was that girl who
used to come down with Hoveyda, and she likes older men or something.
But then she told Brigid she was almost a doctor and that she was a
collagen and hair-transplant expert so I took the call, and she said she
wanted to become my personal doctor for all this stuff. She said she’ll be
getting her license to practice in three months. She came down with about
4,000 free samples. She said she worked with Orentreich. She’s the one that
Rupert got the human heart from when I was doing the Hearts. She took it
from a cadaver, I guess. Those Hearts of mine weren’t a hit because I didn’t
figure out how to do them right. I was beginning to use my abstract look.
Worked all afternoon.
Watched cable TV looking for Andy Warhol’s TV on MSG-TV but it
wasn’t on, so called Vincent and he was in bed already and didn’t know
why it hadn’t been on.
Tuesday, May 10,1983
Karen the almost-doctor came by, and I think I will become her first patient
when she gets her office in three months. I am thinking of a facelift but she
said to wait and she’d give it to me. I never went back to Dr. Rees after that
consultation, I still owe him $200.
Then Steve Aronson came in with a girl named Evgenia, she’s a
Guinness but she has a Polish last name and she’s Robert Lowell’s
stepdaughter—a short dark-haired English girl, she’s trying to be a model.
And we all went to Worth Street, just near Canal, and I let the girl pay for
the cab. Somehow I didn’t want to, somehow I wanted her to. The three of
us were being photographed together, I didn’t know why, for the English
magazine Ritz, which I hear David Bailey’s sold, but it’s still hanging on.
Somebody was getting something, but I couldn’t figure out what was going
on. And you could tell the photographer was an amateur because he took
too many pictures, too many rolls. Left there. Dropped Steve off ($5.50)
and then I finally put it together what it was all about. The girl wanted
pictures to use in her modeling portfolio and the Ritz wanted pictures of me,
so she used Steve to get me down there by telling him they needed me to
represent (laughs) “hype” because they’re running an interview with Steve
on his book Hype. In the cab Steve said the picture they took of the three of
us was going to be on the cover and so then I just looked at him—I mean, if
it’s for the cover, they’ll just crop him out anyway and they’ll use a picture
of me and say, “Mr. Hype.” So that was a real waste of time for everybody
but the girl.
Wednesday, May 11, 1983
You know, you begin to wonder if there isn’t something to these Polish
jokes. I mean, the Polish Institute is next door and they have a sign on the
door that says to use the next door, and they have an arrow pointing to the
second door. Well they walk right by that second door and come to my
house and ring my bell. It really makes you wonder.
My sister-in-law Ann just got me on the phone, and she keeps wanting to
come over here and I keep telling her I’m going out of town. And they just
had a forty-year reunion and I was the only one in the family not invited
because they knew I wouldn’t come. And she just told me her daughter now
sells mortuary plots, and she said, “She’s married to a 6’4” guy and he’s
Lutheran and he’s very nice, what a nice guy, uh, he’s not working at the
moment, but …” I always hated this sister-in-law. She made her one son
become a priest and I guess he really didn’t want to. I always thought she
should be a nun herself. And the daughter, Eva, when she was taking care of
my mother when I was in Paris making L’Amour, she made me rush right
back to New York saying she just had to leave and get on with her life, and I
told her, “What life?” She could have just lived in New York and kept
taking care of my mother, but she wouldn’t, she went to Denver. Well, she’s
still out there. And here’s my sister-in-law telling me all things I don’t want
to hear, like, “Do you realize it’s the anniversary of your father’s death? Did
you go to church for Assumption?” [Note: Andy’s father died in May 1942
when Andy was thirteen.]
Saturday, May 14, 1983
It was sunny, warm. The tree in front of the house didn’t make it through
the winter and I asked people what I can do about it and they said you have
to call the city and tell them about it and they probably won’t do anything
until the fall.
Met Benjamin and we went downtown to the Sandro Chia show at the
Castelli Gallery (cab $5). And then went over to Tony Shafrazi’s and saw
the works of somebody named … I forget. It’s Fred Flintstone graffiti, that’s
what he’s known for—Kenny somebody. Scharf. And so I was thinking of
buying a work of this artist and I figured it would be $4,000 or $5,000. So
we left there and when I called later on after thinking about it they said it
cost $16,000. I mean, these are kids right off the street getting these prices!
Went to the office and John O’Connor came to help. Did two big
Rorschachs and they looked kind of good, I don’t know. I get so confused
looking at art, you don’t know whether to change or stay the same. Oh
(laughs) I know, I won’t change, I won’t change.
Sunday, May 15, 1983
Called PH and she’d just interviewed the guy who directed War Games, and
he told her that when he directed Saturday Night Fever, John Travolta
didn’t want to wear the famous white disco suit because he didn’t think
white was cool—he wanted to wear a black one. But then the guy pointed
out to Travolta that if he wore black he’d fade into the background and
you’d only be able to see the girl he was dancing with, so he changed his
mind fast. That’ll be a good scoop for Interview.
Went over to the Criterion to see Breathless (tickets $10). It’s strange to
see Richard Gere doing this. If it’d been somebody like Matt Dillon it
would have been like a James Dean movie. It’s that Sartre way, the
nothingness thing. You would think existentialism would be still modern,
but it isn’t. He does bad things and you see his ass all the time, he just drops
his pants every chance he gets. But it’s strange to see someone that age
doing that, but maybe that’ll bring back that kind of person. It was written
by our old friend, Kit Carson. The movie had an old-fashioned feeling to it.
Monday, May 16, 1983
Brigid just told me that Mickey Ruskin O.D.’d at 3:00 in the morning.
Mickey had been calling her for months, wanting her to give an interview
on Max’s Kansas City and the sixties for a book he was doing on Max’s.
Called Julian Schnabel ($.50) and then went over there. He has four
floors in the building that Les Levine bought years ago and then co-op’d.
Schnabel used to be his assistant. Julian’s following my philosophy of
doing a painting a day, he’s trying to be the new Andy Warhol, so that made
me nervous so I left and worked very hard at the office until 8:00.
Wednesday, May 18,1983
Benjamin had invited Keith Haring and Kenny Scharf for lunch. I tried to
get Keith on the Interview cover, I was thinking it would be good to have an
artist on the cover, art is so big now, but they wouldn’t let me. It looks like
we’re going to use Miguel Bose.
Richard Gere hasn’t returned Interview phone calls about being on the
cover, so I guess he’s not a friend.
Oh, and Paige is upset—Jean Michel Basquiat is really on heroin—and
she was crying, telling me to do something, but what can you do? He got a
hole in his nose and he couldn’t do coke anymore, and he wanted to still be
on something, I guess. I guess he wants to be the youngest artist to go.
Paige gave him a big art show uptown last month and she’s the reason he’s
been around the office—they’re “involved.”
Thursday, May 19, 1983
The papers were full of Lord Jermyn getting busted for “trafficking in
heroin.”
Friday, May 20, 1983
A day for more newspaper shockers, Monique Van Vooren was charged
with cashing her dead mother’s Social Security checks for years, ever since
she died.
Decided to go to the Fiorucci party at Studio 54 and it was so
embarrassing to at this point get into a cab and say (laughs), “Studio 54,
please.”
And Peter Beard was there, he’s back from Africa, but he said not to tell
Cheryl.
Monday, May 23, 1983
I decided to take Chris to Europe again because I get nervous being alone
there while Fred’s off doing business.
Then Chris was having John Sex at his place with his boa constrictor—
he uses it in his act— so I went over there to take pictures, took about three
rolls, but I was scared of the snake. And the snake sleeps with him. And
John has the most unusual hair, the most extreme style—a very big big
exaggerated pompadour, dyed blond and hair-sprayed, and he said that
when he got into a cab one day his hair was just this big mess and standing
out all over the place and the cab driver said to him, “What’s that? An Andy
Warhol wig?”
Monday, May 30, 1983
Memorial Day. It was dreary, started to rain. Had to meet Bruno
Bischofberger at the Jockey Club in the Ritz Carlton on Central Park South,
so I walked over there. Bruno was waiting inside with Julian Schnabel and
Francesco Clemente.
And Julian Schnabel’s painting just went for $96,000 at auction.
Clemente is another one of those new Italian painters, like Chia and Cucci.
And somehow Julian is in this category, too—he really is determined to be
a big star.
Later, I was getting calls from Victor and he was crying and hysterical
and saying he had no friends and that when Halston came home
“something” was going to happen at 6:00. And I said, “Oh, Victor, I mean, I
just don’t want to be involved because the last time I was involved you told
me to mind my own business. Just don’t do anything crazy.” And he said
that he would drag Halston’s name through the papers and ruin his image,
and I said that he would be the one who got hurt. And I think this is all
because Victor’s new boyfriend just jilted him and people transfer these
things.
Tuesday, May 31,1983
Fred told me that as he was going by 63rd Street and Park, he saw these two
guys hugging and kissing in the middle of the street and it turned out to be
Victor and his boyfriend, so I guess I don’t have to worry about Victor for a
while again.
Wednesday, June 1, 1983
Bruno came to lunch, and Jean Michel Basquiat. And after Paige’d been
crying away that he was destroying himself on drugs and was going to die,
here he showed up as healthy as a horse, he’s put on twenty pounds, and he
was just in Jamaica, and he looked actually handsome. He gets his hair cut
at this shop on Astor Place that’s gotten so chic, it used to be $2.50 for a
haircut and now it’s $4 something.
Thursday, June 2, 1983
Liz Smith did a whole column on Calvin, saying that she sat next to him the
other night and he absolutely denied the rumor that he had AIDS and that he
looked healthy and happy and that he was now off in Morocco.
And I forgot to say that yesterday on the Today Show Steve Aronson was
on to promote Hype, and they quoted my “In the future everyone will be
famous for fifteen minutes” line. The girl who interviewed him was the
blonde who’s replacing Jane Pauley for the week. She attacked Steve but he
deserved it—he went too far in the book, he was too mean. How is it that
someone so smart and so funny can’t figure out that being mean always
backfires?
And Chris said that he visited Tony Perkins and Berry. I guess Psycho II
will make a lot of money this summer. He said that when Berry went into
the other room Tony started pointing to Chris’s crotch and saying, “I’d like
to see you,” and all Chris could say was, “All right, Norman.” I never really
liked Tony because he treated me badly once when he was with Tab Hunter.
At 1:30 Curley called and said he was just sitting there with his dog
thinking about me.
Friday, June 3, 1983
The city is just teeming with beautiful kids who all look like models. They
must come from everywhere. And the Post today had the headline:
“Fashion Designer Dies of AIDS.” But it wasn’t Calvin, it was a South
American. And I heard that last night at the Santo Domingo wedding party
which I didn’t go to, someone was saying to Zara who works for Calvin,
“Okay, enough is enough, you’ve got to tell me, what’s the story with
Calvin?” And just at that moment he walked in looking so healthy and he
said, “I just got back from Marrakesh.”
Saturday, June 4, 1983
It’s now around the time of the fifteenth anniversary of the day Robert
Kennedy was killed and I was shot. They found a letter at the new building
saying “Welcome to the neighborhood,” and it was from Crazy Matty. He’s
living at the Hotel Seville, just a few blocks away. Went to bed early and
that was that.
Sunday, June 5, 1983
Cabbed to the Water Basin on 32nd Street and the East River near where the
helicopters take off ($6) to go to Brooke Shields’s eighteenth birthday party.
Brooke was sweet, her mother thanked me for coming. The usual people
were there, Cornelia with her beau. Couri Hay and Scavullo and Sean
Byrnes. And Ted Kennedy, Jr. came and said hello. Brooke ate with us, and
it’s just so funny to see her with her little girlfriends, because here’s this 6’
goddess and then these short little ducklings who’re smart—I mean they’re
smarter than Brooke, but it’s just like two such different things. She looks
twenty-five. If she could only get her voice down to sounding less feminine
she could really make it in the movies.
And Brooke thanked me for the present of putting her on the cover oí
Interview, but I’d already given her a painting, so she was just being nice
saying that.
And she gave out pictures of herself in a little silver frame, which was a
cute idea. The food looked good, everybody looked pretty. Slipped out at
12:00 and went home to walk the dogs.
Monday, June 6, 1983
The morning was great. Chris called and said that Coleco was going up ten
points by the minute. He and I both have some.
And I love seeing the new People magazine with Tony Perkins on the
cover, and it talked about him being gay, as if it were all in the past. Isn’t
that funny? And it talked about Brigitte Bardot and Ingrid Bergman and
Jane Fonda trying to make him. Left out Tab Hunter and Chris Makos, but it
didn’t say that he used to hire hustlers to come in through the window and
pretend to be robbers. I wonder if Chris had to do that. I guess maybe he
did. Chris did get wild.
Tuesday, June 7, 1983
It was really busy at the office. Jay came in the back to where I was
working and told me that Sidney Poitier’s son was there. And everybody at
the office, they all believed it. It was like believing in the Du Pont twins or
something. Jay really fell for it. Finally we got him out when he said that
his mother Diahann Carroll was coming to meet him there, so I said, “Oh,
you might miss her if you don’t wait for her downstairs.” Oh, and Diana
Ross was going to be coming with her. I forgot. Diana Ross, too. And still
they all believed it.
So cabbed up to the Museum of Natural History ($8) in traffic. Saw
Halston’s show then went to his place. And when I got there Halston said,
“A very strange thing happened. My doorbell rang and there was this boy
who claimed he was the son of Sidney Poitier and Diahann Carroll and he
said he was meeting you here for dinner, and I told him, ‘Listen, darling,
you’re not invited.’ “ I guess when this kid was at the office in the afternoon
he must have overheard that I was going to Halston’s for dinner.
Wednesday, June 8, 1983
The fake Poitier kid called the office and said (laughs) he was coming for
lunch. He’s beautiful, like a mulatto girl. Lispy. I screamed at Jay and said
that if he let him set one foot in the door I’d kick them both out. Jay still
isn’t convinced the kid isn’t real! But then he never did come.
Thursday, June 9, 1983
Got up early because I had a 10:00 appointment at the office that Fred had
made with Wayne Gretzky of the Oilers (cab $6). When I got there they said
that Gretzky had just called and said he was coming right down. Meanwhile
Fred who had made this early, early meeting wasn’t there yet. By 12:30 I
was still the only one there, and I was mad. I found out from Brigid that the
reason Fred was late was because he’d brought home a black girl and she’d
Mickey Finn’d him and taken all his watches, so I didn’t yell at him. And
finally Gretzky arrived and he was adorable, blond and twenty-two and
cute. He doesn’t wear shoulder pads when he plays. I told him he should go
into the movies and he said that he was going to be in a Fall Guy and a Tom
Selleck. He dates a Canadian singer.
Brigid went up to Jennifer’s graduation from Spence, and I couldn’t go,
I disappointed Jennifer, because I had the Gretzky thing and then lolas to
tape. But I called her and told her to bring her father down afterwards for
lunch. Sent Brigid out for desserts ($20) and had champagne with Jennifer
and her father. And then after they left, that’s when Benjamin told me that
her father had been Edie’s psychiatrist! Jennifer didn’t tell her father until a
few days ago that she was working here. Jennifer stayed on and worked.
Sunday, June 12, 1983
Up early, it was a beautiful day. Went to church. Then Jon and I cabbed up
to the Bronx Zoo where I’d never been in my life ($20, admission $5). And
it was really great. Took a lot of pictures, it was fun. Decided to go on the
Safari Trail ride, and ran into Ron Galella who was there with his wife
who’d also never been. Then Ron gave us a ride to the Grand Concourse
and we got— a subway ($1.50). The subway made a lot of stops at first, but
then it was express. Got off at Columbus Circle and walked home.
The day had been mostly black. Originally, the city was having Puerto
Rican Day, so that was one of the main reasons to get away. But P.R. Day
was 98.9 percent black. The subway was 85 percent black. The zoo was 80
percent black, the park was 99.5 percent black. Whites are really a minority.
Monday, June 13, 1983
Eddie Murphy’s person called and said he turned us down for the cover. I
wonder if this is all on purpose. Is Rolling Stone putting the word out? Well,
I’ll remember. An old dog never forgets.
Tuesday, June 14, 1983
Got up early. Benjamin went to Boston without even telling me. He went up
to perform with fifteen girls and him as a drag queen. He still goes in drag.
On request. He lip-synchs to records.
At 10:00 I had an appointment to do a modeling job for the Jordan
Marsh catalogue at Scavullo’s. I used my own makeup after reading the
AIDS piece in New York. I forgot my lip gloss, though. And for the first
time in a long time I haven’t had one pimple. Karen Burke’s treatments are
working. She gave me this stuff called Ten Percent, and it’s benzoyl
peroxide. Which is what Clearasil is. But then Clearasil has the coloring, so
I can use it like makeup.
Wednesday, June 15, 1983
Chris called me up and was mad because Jon told him that I’d never take
him and Peter to dinner again because they just order everything and have it
wrapped to take it home. And I told him it was true. But later when I got
home Peter had sent an orchid plant, so I felt bad.
Our old office architect Peter Marino was featured in The New York
Times this week for doing Marella Agnelli’s apartment. So I guess he’s
rolling in bucks now.
And Richard Gere is finally calling back, he says now he may do our
cover. He must feel he has a flop movie coming out.
Thursday, June 16, 1983
Timothy Hutton came to be interviewed by Maura and me. Maura, I could
tell, wasn’t really hot for him, the sparks weren’t flying. But (laughs) I was
hot for him. He was so adorable. He looked scruffy. He’s just finished
Daniel.
Frank Zappa came to be interviewed for our TV show and I think that
after the interview I hated Zappa even more than when it started. I
remember when he was so mean to us when the Mothers of Invention
played with the Velvet Underground—I think both at the Trip, in L.A., and
at the Fillmore in San Francisco. I hated him then and I still don’t like him.
And he was awfully strange about Moon. I said how great she was, and he
said, “Listen, I created her. I invented her.” Like, “She’s nothing, it’s all
me.” And I mean, if it were my daughter I would be saying, “Gee, she’s so
smart,” but he’s taking all the credit. It was peculiar.
Then Stellan from Sweden was waiting and we went over to Sandro
Chia’s on West 23rd and 10th Avenue. And he has almost the whole
building now. He has a lithographic press that he wants other artists to use. I
guess he’s making it like a foundation, a tax thing. And he’s supposed to be
giving me a picture, and that’s why I wanted to go over there, but he gave
me one I didn’t like. I wanted a Floating Man one. And Benjamin said he
looked in Chia’s eyes and that they were “wild eyes.” And afterwards I said
to Benjamin, “Well what do you mean?” I said, “Look into my eyes and
what do you see?” And Benjamin said, “Troubled eyes.” I said, “Oh who do
you think you are?”
Sunday, June 19, 1983
Victor called and I’m just afraid that drugs have taken over Victor’s brain,
because you know, you’re emotional, and then you take all the drugs, and
do all the fighting, and then suddenly it happens—you’re over the brink.
I’m afraid he’s having a nervous breakdown. He said he was in a hospital
and had all these stitches and bruises, and it was too crazy. And he said that
the night before, the air conditioner had broken at Halston’s, but I wasn’t
sure if it had really broken or if Halston had just wanted to drive him out. I
guess it really must have been broken, though, because Halston wouldn’t
have wanted the orchids to die and they were dying.
And I’ve been thinking about these people who sell things on the street,
because I watched on TV and this newscaster was just beaming doing this
story about how the city confiscated $485,000 in street vendors’
merchandise. But I mean, there were these black people out there working,
trying to actually sell, and now they’ll just start stealing! I mean, vendors
are messy and dirty and they slop up the streets, but they’re trying to do
workl And here they’re beaming on TV that they put them out of business.
And they have the store owners on saying they pay big rents and it isn’t fair,
but I mean, do the stores sell the same stuff as the people on the streets? Not
really.
Monday, June 20, 1983
Timothy Hutton stood up the photographer and stylist for his Interview
cover. He just left them waiting which I was surprised about, so that upset
us. He called later and said he’d had an earache, and that they could do the
cover in L.A. I guess when you get that successful at twenty-one …
Friday, June 24, 1983—New York—Montauk
We got on the plane to Montauk and I’ve never had anything like this
happen before—this two-engine plane wouldn’t start, and so they backed up
another plane to it and tried to jump-cut the wires. I couldn’t believe it. And
Halston’s saying, “Listen, darling, these pilots don’t want to die, they know
what they’re doing.” And I said, “I’ve flown in a lot of planes and I’ve
never seen anything like this.” And finally it got too ridiculous. They
couldn’t jump-start it and so we got off. And they (laughs) offered us
pretzels and peanuts. They were embarrassed. So then we got another plane
(food $5). Then we flew out and the ride was fast and beautiful—the moon
was coming up full and we flew over all the big houses.
Halston’s brother who’s the attaché in Brussels was there with his wife
and kids and stepkids. The kids were wearing Halston’s new line from J.C.
Penney. I think it’s a hit.
Saturday, June 25, 1983—Montauk
Paul Morrissey said that someone called and offered to rent Montauk for
$80,000. And Halston only pays $40,000. But it’s so much better with
Halston, he keeps everything up and doesn’t have a lot of people out, and
part of the reason he’s paying $40,000 is because he put furniture in. And
Liza doesn’t come out anymore—she and Halston are still not on good
terms. Because she didn’t wear a Halston to the Oscars. And I keep asking
people, “Why would she have done that?” But I think it’s the Geros. They
wanted to break her up with Halston so they’d have more control. I mean,
when your husband tells you you don’t look good in these clothes … I
guess Mark knew that Liza was using Halston’s to have assignations, too.
But Liz Taylor will be coming out to visit Halston in Montauk soon—she’s
getting Saturdays and Sundays off from Private Lives.
Went into the town. And Halston was saying to me, “Oh darling,
wouldn’t it be grand if your paintings cost a dollar and you could just cover
houses all over the world with them, and a big one for over the fireplace
would cost $50—but think of all the homes in America that you could just
fill up.” The J.C. Penney concept.
Sunday June 26, 1983—Montauk—New York
We went over to Gurney’s Inn and I’d never been there. It’s next to Edward
Albee’s. Gurney’s has the rustic look. It’s modern with a cave in the wall. It
has balconies that are 4’ X 6’, and when we were on one balcony looking
down on another, we could see these two men counting out hundred-dollar
bills on green felt. I guess a boat had just smuggled in some drugs.
Monday, June 27, 1983
This morning a big bridge from Greenwich, Connecticut to New York broke
and four cars drove off it.
You know, I’m just not sure that people want to read interviews.
Because when you read an article about somebody you find out all these
things about their lives. Like the article this week in People on Jon’s friend
Katy Dobbs, who’s the editor of Muppet magazine, and her boyfriend, Fred
Newman. But then, since the sixties, after years of more and more and more
“people” in the news, you still don’t know anything more about people.
Maybe you know more, but you don’t know better. Like you can live with
someone and not have any idea, either. So what good does all this
information do you?
Wednesday, June 29, 1983
Richard Simmons has sort of disappeared. After being the biggest thing in
America last year he’s just on real early in the morning.
I was picked up by Ian Schrager and went out to Roy Cohn’s annual
party in Greenwich and traffic was bad because of the bridge that had
collapsed, and now they say that it was a seven-inch pin that caused the
whole thing to go. It’s so abstract. People just kept driving onto it even
when it wasn’t there—until a big tractor-trailer blocked it off.
I talked to Bob Colacello. He’s going to Europe to do an article for
Parade. Sat in a corner by the pond. Ate a fast dinner. Saw Calvin and told
him that Juan Hamilton was very upset that Calvin hadn’t taken his call. I
guess Juan and Georgia O’Keeffe feel that they treated Calvin so well when
he was out there in New Mexico with them that he should be very friendly
and do favors, but then I guess Calvin feels that he spent so much money
buying Georgia’s paintings that he doesn’t have to do anything more.
Thursday, June 30, 1983
Let’s see, I started off with I Love Lucy which was a good one—Lucy doing
everything to Desi’s scalp because he thinks he’s going bald.
Stopped at the new building and Robert Hayes really dresses up in a suit
now, a really good look, the Bob Colacello look, it looks nice. But I mean,
there he is with his dog at the office, and dogs can carry diseases… And I
think, Oh what am I doing with my dogs, letting them get so close to me
after they’ve been out on the streets. Halston never lets Linda go to the
street. She poops in the kitchen. The one time Halston let her go to the park
she came back with those fleas that Archie got on the same day in the park
(phone $.50, supplies $17.32).
And when people on the street turn me down when I offer them a free
Interview, it just gets me right in the gut.
Our TV show got a mention in Time in an article about Entertainment
Tonight.
Paige Powell had a big lunch for the Black Star & Frost jewelry guy, to
try to get ads. And Victor called and asked me if I stole his book on St.
Sebastian. And I had to say yes. But how can a person who’s so drugged-
out know that I stole his book?
Dropped Benjamin ($6). Then got another cab to the Olympic Tower to
meet Halston, to go out to see Liza perform in New Jersey ($3). Nancy and
Bill Dugan were coming, and Bill now wears his coat over his shoulders
just like Halston.
So we got there and it was a place with a top but no sides and it was
freezing. Liza’s show was just great, two acts, better than The Act. She’s
fabulous. She wore her YSL for the opening but with an Elsa Peretti belt,
and then after that the outfits were Halston. A hairdresser punked up her
hair, she’s decided to be punk. I was starved, hadn’t eaten, and there were
no hot dogs or food being sold.
And then Liza came in the car with us going back. And she said she
didn’t like a dark limousine, she had to have a light, and so she turned on a
light and it was on me and I couldn’t stand it and so then I turned the light
so it was on her, and she liked that. She was in this spotlight all the way
back.
Friday, July 1,1983
Worked at the office all day. Fred was planning his trip to Europe. He’s
going on Tuesday—one of the Lambton girls is getting married. And then
Catherine’s getting married on July 16, she called me to ask if I was going
and I’m not.
Got myself together and picked up Peter Wise. Cabbed to Keith Haring’s
($8.50). And he had such beautiful painted kids there, all like Li’l Abner
and Daisy Mae. Wearing earrings and punk fun clothes. And black 6’
pickaninnies.
And this was a party because Keith just broke through into another
apartment. He’s just got a tent in it where he and his black boyfriend sleep.
We’re going to photograph it for Interview. Keith was such a good hostess.
This is at like Bowery and Broome.
John Sex was there who has the beautiful hairdo. I took about fifty
pictures. I shot without my contacts and I took one of a girl in the bathroom
and she almost beat me up, and then when I left I found out I didn’t have
any film in the camera.
Saturday, July 2, 1983
Went over to Mr. Chow’s for a birthday party for Jerry Hall who looks so
stunning, so beautiful. White flowers and white roses were the decorations
downstairs. Her sister who was in Urban Cowboy who married the Robin
Lehman guy was there, and she had sort of a different attitude toward me,
sort of cool. And I’d just seen Urban Cowboy on TV a couple of times and
she was so slim in it and now she has those wide Texas hips.
Clarisse Rivers was there, really fun. And Earl McGrath was funny.
Mick happened to sit near me. Jed was there and I think he was with Alan
Wanzenberg, and actually I think it was Alan who was sitting next to me but
I wasn’t absolutely sure. The seating was a free-for-all. There was a big
white cake with all the candles. The party went on and on. It was great. Left
at 1:30, and was miserable.
Sunday, July 3, 1983
It was hot out. I went to church. Called Jay Shriver, cabbed down to meet
him ($6). Opened up, worked all afternoon. Called Earl McGrath and asked
if I could bring Jay to dinner. Cabbed to West 57th Street ($8).
It was very air-conditioned at Earl’s. Camilla makes great food, a good
Italian cook. Annie Leibovitz was there, and she said Jann Wenner’s mad at
her because she accepted a year’s contract with Vanity Fair and he said she
couldn’t work for Rolling Stone and Vanity Fair, too.
Then everybody had to read poetry and that was the funniest thing. I
didn’t, but everybody else did. They took them off the bookshelves. Really,
it was so sick. Earl’s such a camp. I was laughing, everybody was. But
reading straight. Like Jerry Hall reading straight like, “I am so-and-so, king
of kings/Look at me and despair.”
Tuesday, July 5, 1983
There was a party at the Statue of Liberty, but I’d already read publicity of
me going to it so I felt it was done already.
Wednesday, July 6, 1983
I had an appointment with Karen Burke because she’s leaving for Europe
and she wants to test me to see if she can give me collagen and I’m going to
do it because she worked out well for my pimples. I read that the collagen
only lasts three to six months, but so what, then you just have it done again.
Christopher came back from California, and we talked an hour on the
phone. Worked till 7:30 then decided to take the kids out on the town. We
went to One Fifth because they’ve started to advertise again (drinks
$59.47).
Christopher was depressed because he’d fallen in love in L.A. and saw
the kid as a young version of himself. He said that the kid could have been
the most successful hustler on Sunset Strip but instead he decided to
become a busboy. And Chris said to me that he’d learned his lesson about
bad manners when somebody invites you out to dinner because this boy
ordered six desserts and then took them home, and Chris said he would
never ever do anything like that to me again. And it wasn’t until afterwards
that Benjamin said to me, “But did you see that Chris had his steak wrapped
up to go?” And I hadn’t. But he was depressed, so I would have had to let
him get away with it anyway. He was so melancholy he had tears in his
eyes. He put on his sunglasses. He was carrying his bags under his eyes. I
told him look, that he was so in love with Mark from Denver at one point
that it was wrecking his life, and now he doesn’t care a thing about him, so
that he’d get over this, too.
Thursday, July 7, 1983
Well the news of the day was that Alfred Bloomingdale’s Vicki Morgan was
found beaten to death. So all I could think of was the CIA. Unless she was
in an S&M thing.
Catherine called again to try to get me to come to her wedding. I just
don’t know what to do. I don’t want to go. And Halston says he’ll only go if
I go. Richard Weisman is going on Wednesday and he’s bringing her
Halston wedding dress. Victor wants to go. Catherine says she’s saving
room in her car for me.
Sunday, July 10, 1983
Chris is driving everyone crazy being in love with Byron, the kid he met in
California, saying, “He’s so like me. It’s like seeing myself. His mother
died when he was nineteen….”I said, “Uh, Chris, your mother’s still alive.”
And he said that when they were doing around-the-world the kid said,
“Whatever happened to Chris and Byron?” Like whatever happened to
those sweet kids. So there they were engaged in this salacious scene saying
what happened to their innocence. Oh I guess “Byron” would be too much.
(laughs) It’s actually Brian. But it feels like Byron. Talked to John
Reinhold. Stayed home and moped because I’m sick in the head. Too afraid
to even walk the dogs because I don’t want to bend over on the streets and
pick up the poop. So now I send them just out to the backyard. Jed didn’t
take them this weekend.
Monday, July 11, 1983
Steve Wynn came by, the Golden Nugget guy from Atlantic City. He came
with his wife, who’s intelligent, but she’s old enough that she could be
traded in soon. They were in town because they were taking Frank and
Barbara Sinatra to dinner at La Grenouille. And Steve Wynn had with him
two checks that totalled a billion dollars, from some bank downtown—he
showed them to us. He’s really sexy, he wears those kind of continental
pants. When Benjamin went down to the car with him, it was a beat-up old
limousine. Benjamin was expecting something flashy.
Walked the Village and then went to Tower Records and bought the
Talking Heads album that Rauschenberg did the cover for. He was upset
because he only got $2,000. And I told him he was right, he should’ve
gotten $25,000.
Wednesday, July 13, 1983
Okay, well this was the night of the glittering event, the premiere of Staying
Alive. Got up early.
Paige was having a lunch for two gay guys from Diener Hauser Bates.
One had had my old friend George Clobber for a teacher at Pratt, so we
talked about that. George Clobber was the first person who told me about
the gay life.
Went to meet Maura at 6:45 (cab $7) at the Russian Tea Room. And then
we went over to the Ziegfeld and there were the crowds lined up. And now
there’s a new thing—for Good Morning America when they photograph you
they say, “Are you aware that you’re being photographed for Good
Morning America? And do you give your consent?’ “ I said, “I do.”
And then eighteen bodyguards came in and Stallone and his wife arrived
and I was on the aisle and he saw me and stopped and said he was glad I’d
come. Then the lights went down and Frank Mancuso gave a speech. And
then Sasha Stallone gave an emotional speech about their autistic child that
the benefit was for, and all I could think of was Bad because we were the
first to have an autistic kid in a movie.
I loved Staying Alive. Then the party at Xenon was at 11:45, so we went
over there and on the way we ran into Garson Kanin and Ruth Gordon. I’d
never met him and I had copies of Interviews with me, the new one, and he
said, “Oh I already bought that one.” And she doesn’t have any wrinkles
and she’s like 110 years old or something.
Then coming out of Xenon were eighteen bodyguards and in the middle
was John Travolta in his tuxedo and I caught his eye and he came over and
said hello. So that was two in one night.
Thursday, July 14, 1983
We took our time getting to the theater to see Farrah Fawcett in Extremities.
We thought we had plenty of time, but when we got there they were holding
the curtain for us. Farrah was good, but not as good as Susan Sarandon had
been. And it’s funny, I hadn’t liked Susan Sarandon in anything except The
Other Side of Midnight until then, but then I saw that she was really good.
Some girls tried to pick Benjamin and me up. Then after the play we
saw Farrah and Ryan backstage and they were gushy. It’s so hard to talk to
actors, all they want is to talk about themselves. And Ryan looks a little
older, he’s getting the same lines I have. And he was talking about Paul
Morrissey and telling me I should work with him again. And he really
wants the part of Dick Tracy that Warren Beatty’s supposed to get. Ryan
thought Jon was an important figure at Paramount so he was hustling him.
Jon said they’d jogged together once on the beach at Malibu.
Friday, July 15, 1983
Maura came at 1:00 to pick me up so that we could go out to interview
Richard Gere at the Astoria Studios where they’re shooting Cotton Club.
We were nervous about our interview because we had a feeling it would
be difficult. Maura had read Stanislavsky. And so we went through Dick
Sylbert’s sets for Cotton Club which was exciting. And Richard was back in
this slum area watching old movies on TV. So what he does is he watches
every old movie that has anything to do with what he’s doing and copies
details, the way other actors do things. He actually told us his first movie
was Days of Heaven which I know it wasn’t, but that’s how uncooperative
he was, he wouldn’t give anything. The only interesting thing was telling us
that he spent all of the time he wasn’t working in the filthy trenches in
Mexico in the hospital hooked up to an IV for dysentery—they’d
disconnect him so he could go to work and then he’d be back. It was the
movie with Michael Caine. The Honorary Consul And he liked Maura, but
she’s a friend of Silvinha’s so that complicated it.
Sunday, July 17, 1983
It was hot, another scorcher. I overslept.
Worked with Chris and Peter on working out their modern marriage. The
kid Chris is in love with is being shipped in from California on Thursday.
Tuesday, July 19, 1983
Called John Reinhold and invited him for coffee (phone $.50, coffee $5). I
told him I needed some toys because I was doing a project with them,
photographing them, and he said he’d find some for me.
Victor and Farrah are now best friends because he told her how bad she
was in Extremities and what she did wrong. And now she says her
performance is so much better and she owes it all to Victor. But actually,
she was really good, and Victor was so high when we saw it that he didn’t
know what was going on.
Thursday, July 21, 1983
I could never really describe the Diana Ross concert in Central Park. The
sky darkened and the rain came and it was the most incredible thing I’ve
ever seen. Just the event of the century—her hair blowing and soaking wet,
and if only they’d had a covering on the place where she was, she could
have kept on singing and the kids would have stayed and she would have
had her concert for TV. But they stopped it in the middle of the storm and
they’re going to do it again tomorrow. She was crying, and Barry Diller was
trying to get her to stop but she said that she’d waited for twenty years to do
this. The lightning made it dangerous, I guess, but it was like a dream, like a
hallucination, watching this spectacle. It was like the greatest scene from a
movie ever. When they do her life story in the movies you can just see this
huge event and then later she’s crying and saying, “Why did this happen to
me?” and then drinking and slitting her wrists. But oh, the thunder and
lightning looked so great. So beautiful.
We were in the VIP area, but because I’d had Benjamin bring an
umbrella, we weren’t sitting under the canopy. And Rob Lowe was with us
and he’s so beautiful. It’s like his eyebrows are penciled on and his lips
painted on—everything so perfect. And he’s just like the kids we know, just
regular, and he’s looking for girls, that’s all he can think about. I asked him
to draw me a pussy and he drew a pussy and then I said, “What’s that?” and
I then drew him a cat. And he and his girl friend are sort of breaking up
because whenever she called him on location in Canada the operator would
say, “He’s in Nastassia Kinski’s room,” so then when he would tell her the
next day that his phone had been out of order she would tell him to stop
lying. And he says he’s not in love with Nastassia, though, that it’s just sex.
But he was wearing a toy snake around his waist which was a joke on her
Avedon poster, so he was thinking about her so maybe he is in love. He’s
nineteen. And he was just after any old lady. Just anybody. Like Susan
Sarandon. She was there with Richard Gere and Silvinha.
And oh you should have seen it. Jerry Zipkin in the soaking rain. And I
felt so sorry for Jon because he’s worked so hard on this, because
Paramount owns Showtime which got the film rights.
And then finally people were leaving the park and so we followed the
blacks and wound up coming out at 72nd Street near the Dakota. And we
had to climb a wall and fall into three feet of mud. It was like being in a war
zone. And then after we got out of the park I took Rob Lowe and Benjamin
to Café Central—I said all the stars go there, Matt Dillon and Sean Penn—
and then we got there and had drinks and absolutely nobody was there
(drinks $83.50).
Then I got home and called Rob Lowe at the Sherry and he said that he
was waiting for a phone call from Nastassia, so that I should just go ahead
without him over to the Gulf + Western building for the party. So I went and
when I got there, he was getting out of the cab. So that was kind of mean. I
was hurt. I guess he didn’t want to be seen with us again because we were
being campy and outrageous. And I said to him, you know, “I just was
going to give you a ride, that’s all—it was no big deal.”
And Cornelia had been at the park, too. And a newspaper photographer
took her and pushed her next to one of the people who were stabbed, just to
get that kind of a picture of a socialite and a stabbed person. Cornelia didn’t
know what was going on.
And at the party at the Gulf + Western Rob was after Cornelia and
Maura. He and Cornelia kept going off alone.
I gave Diana Ross a Diamond painting. She was looking at tapes of the
concert. Barry Diller came over and I told him the concert was so great and
he said, “You always like disasters. You liked Grease II.”
Harvey Mann who works for Liz Smith was there and he was asking me
if I’d heard anything more about Calvin and AIDS. He said that they’d
killed the rumor in their column. And then Calvin came in and he kissed me
so hard and his beard was stubbly and I was so afraid that it was piercing
into my pimple and being like a needle and giving me AIDS. So if I’m gone
in three years …
And by the way, Rob Lowe also said that up in Canada where they were
all shooting Hotel New Hampshire, Jodie Foster was reading the Philosophy
book.
Friday, July 22, 1983
It was the day of the second Diana Ross concert because they decided to
redo it (cab $8). Cornelia came. Rob Lowe didn’t come. The concert was
anticlimactic because it was just regular.
But then afterwards the kids started rioting, and if it weren’t for the
police the whole place would have gone crazy. It was 99 percent black. The
guy who owns Café Central took us out of the park so we came out at the
right spot uptown to go to Café Central. He had a cane.
And when we got there, Rob Lowe came and Andrew McCarthy who’s
also in the movie Class. He gets Jacqueline Bisset. And he’s just regular, a
nice kid.
At Café Central they’re trying to treat people rotten to be like Elaine’s.
The waitress came to our table and said, “You’ve got to leave this table, it’s
reserved for Lorna Luft.” And Cornelia just burst out laughing that anyone
would ask her to move to make room for Lorna Luft. And it was so stupid
because if they’d just been nice and said, “Would you mind since there’s not
so many of you now, moving to a smaller table?” I mean, they knew we
were leaving anyway because we’d said we were going to the 11:00 show
of Class, which Rob and Andrew had passes for. Maybe this kind of
treatment makes some people want to go there, but it sure doesn’t make me
want to go there (dinner $100 with tip).
So then we went over to 66th and Second and Cornelia was chattering
away, she repeats everything over and over, just like her mother, she has to
keep talking. And Andrew was rolling his eyes.
The movie was so great and cute. Afterward I tried to sell Andrew and
Rob’s autographs in the lobby for a nickel, but nobody bought any.
Monday, July 25, 1983
Mrs. Winters’s son, Al, who’s the caretaker now, called and said that Paul
Morrissey is out in Montauk in the little house and I don’t think Halston and
Victor know he’s there. And he’s following Al around and telling him what
to do and driving him crazy. And Al says, “Call Vincent,” and Paul says,
“Listen, I own half this property.” And now Paul wants me to sign a new
piece of paper—he’s decided that the one he drew up with his lawyers and
made me sign is too advantageous to me or something. I told him, “No,
forget it, I’m not signing anything more.” All these years Paul made such
stupid deals for us with other people and now here he’s trying to be so
“shrewd” in business with me, putting all this energy into that, as if I didn’t
give him better deals than anybody else all the time anyway, for all those
years.
Tuesday, July 26, 1983
Christopher brought his new young live-in love that he imported from
California to live with them over to the office and I gave them a cold
shoulder. I’ve been trying to give Chris less work but he came and got all
these assignments out of me. And the only reason I got all involved with
Chris and Peter and giving them advice is because I thought if they could
make their relationship work, then there was hope for me. But now Peter is
with this bank teller George and Chris is with his new kid Brian, and I don’t
believe in modern marriages.
Benjamin and I stopped in Bloomingdale’s and the fairies were making
the bread in the window—you could see it, kneading it and everything.
Wednesday, July 27, 1983
Cabbed to meet Lidija ($6). Did my exercises. Then Tim Leary came down
because he was meeting Gordon Liddy and we were going to do a
promotional interview, just a short thing because they’re going around
doing debates now together.
And Gordon Liddy talked about “takeovers.” Like if you’re walking
down the street and someone thinks they’re stronger than you they take you
over. And he pulled a knife out of his waist, and I couldn’t believe it. I was
surprised that he’s so small. He’s about my size, and in a way he’s like Mr.
Milquetoast. And he pulled out these pictures of his three sons from a
leather envelope. And here’s the big bruisers in swimsuits and you can see
the outlines of their dicks. These were like 8” X 10” color photographs—
artistic, with ripples in the water! I mean, this is a very strange way to take
pictures of your kids to carry around! And he was thrilled because one of
the kids was going to be a Marine. They’re all at Fordham. And he said his
girls didn’t want him to carry their pictures, but I’m sure he didn’t care
about the girls, he was just thrilled with the big bruisers. And one of the
boys had a two-inch cat, a little kitten, that he was holding. And he also had
pictures of his house, on the Potomac. And Tim was there with his hippie
talk, and Gordon Liddy would spout facts about how many A-bombs have
been exploded. And he’s sort of lost, Liddy, it’s odd. It’s like he doesn’t
know what to do with himself. He liked me a lot, he wants us to see more of
each other. Tim left and he stayed on for a while.
Thursday, July 28, 1983
Got up early and had to move fast because I had an early appointment at the
office with Pia Zadora, so I was excited.
She arrived and was so cute. Her husband, Riklis, came and showed
pictures. She’s so sweet, and I think she’s going to be a big star. Her skin is
beautiful. They’ve got a new house in California and she liked some
paintings.
Later the office was so busy, it was the day before Fred’s birthday and
he didn’t want anyone to know, but (laughs) Suzie Frankfurt sent a huge
balloon and carnations.
Monday, August 1, 1983
Peter Sellars and Lew Allen came to lunch and they’ve rented an apartment
for the dummy. The robot of me who’ll star in An Evening with Andy
Warhol. And the play is scheduled to go on a year from November. And all
these magazines like Life and everything are supposed to do big things on
it. And somewhere along the line Bob Colacello has a part of it—I guess
we’ll be linked together for life because of it.
Then Vincent picked me up (cab $6) in black tie, and we went over to
the New York State Theater for the North American Watch banquet. Mr.
Grinberg pushed me into General Haig and he was sweet, we talked about
his interview in Interview. I wasn’t at ex-President Ford’s table, but I sat
right behind him.
I ate because I was down to 121 and I got scared because when I get
below 120 I lose my appetite, and you’re more susceptible to things when
you’re that thin.
Haig made a speech about war and missiles and he’s for all that, and
after just hearing Gordon Liddy last week, well I guess you do need that
stuff, but I don’t know what I believe in, because fighting’s wrong, but then
if you don’t fight …
And Ford made a speech about how he’s happy being retired and how
he’s going to be working for Reagan’s reelection, and how the economy is
better and so people could buy more watches —he just about said that.
Friday, August 5, 1983
Bianca’s trying so hard to marry Calvin because she doesn’t have any
money. She said that when she told him he was too heavy, two weeks later
he’d lost all the weight. So Halston was just hating Bianca so much, and he
told me to bring Jerry Hall to see him and he would just give her
everything, just anything she wanted. He was saying about Bianca, “I’ll fix
her wagon,” and that was scary. So awful. And Steve Rubell called from
Fire Island and I was talking to him and then Calvin got on the phone and
asked me to get Bianca and I said, “Bianca, it’s Steve.” And Halston looked
up and said, “It’s Calvin, Bianca.”
Monday, August 8, 1983
Poor Monique Van Vooren was guilty of fraud, cashing her mother’s checks
for a total of $18,000. And it was just so peculiar because I saw her and she
denied it to me. I mean, she should have just said she was guilty, she should
have just said, “Oh my god, it’s true, I’m a thief,” something like that. And
Jackie Curtis called me over the weekend to wish me happy birthday.
Cabbed to meet Lidija ($5). Chris came over and he’s raving about the
“expanded family” life they’re having—their “modern marriage” where
they’re both seeing different people and acting like they live in a commune.
I think it’s all disgusting and I told him I don’t want to hear about it. I’m
now telling Vincent to give Christopher less darkroom work, I want to
punish him.
Glued myself together and then went to Claudia Cohen’s new apartment
on Central Park South where she was having a party to look at the five
seconds of fireworks that were going to be in the park because of
Beethoven’s overture. She was having a big fire on her balcony, I’m
surprised she didn’t get into trouble for it. She was barbecuing hamburgers.
And I had some because I was starved.
Tuesday, August 9, 1983
It was interesting that when John Russell wrote about Schnabel on Sunday,
the portrait of me was the only one he didn’t mention. And I know Schnabel
thought that mine would be the one that got him a lot of press.
Paige stayed overnight with Jean Michel in his dirty smelly loft
downtown. How I know it smells is because Chris was there and said
(laughs) it was like a nigger’s loft, that there were crumpled-up hundred-
dollar bills in the corner and bad b.o. all over and you step on paintings. The
day Jean Michel came over to exercise with me he made a point of saying
that Paige had made it to work on time, so that’s how he was letting me
know. He’d thought that Paige was Jay’s girlfriend, which she was at one
point, but then he asked her out and she went. And they had a date and this
was the date—they rented a U-Haul and went out to Brooklyn to a black
neighborhood and went to a White Castle and had eight hamburgers and
then two people came in with big sticks and they thought they were going
to kill them. You know, it was a “kooky date.”
This was the day before he went to St. Moritz to see Bruno. Mary Boone
and Bruno are both handling him. And Thomas Ammann without either one
of them knowing had a few works of Jean Michel’s to sell. I don’t know
where he got them. He said from some “secret source”—oh wait! I bet it
was Paige! Oh Thomas is a creep, meeting all these people through us and
then being secretive. I bet they were from Paige because she had that show
a few months ago of Jean Michel’s stuff!
Thursday, August 11, 1983
Tried to get the office to start packing. Worked all afternoon on Pia Zadora,
called her and she was away for two weeks on a film.
Went to see Mame with Jon and Cornelia (tickets $120). The audience
was just a bunch of old decorators. Went to Orso’s, right next door, and
Marion Javits walked in with Gil Shiva. And they had La Cage aux Folles
programs and so did everybody in the place, and we had to hide our Mame
programs because we were embarrassed.
Friday, August 12, 1983
Jerry Hall came to lunch to interview Bob Mackie for us (cab $6, supplies
$102). And I told her that Halston wanted to see her and she said she’s
always been so nice to him but he’s always snubbed her so why is he trying
to be nice now. (laughs) She hasn’t figured it out yet.
Sunday, August 14, 1983
Decided to go see Private School (cab $4, tickets $10, popcorn $6). I
wanted to see Phoebe Cates. These movies are just like remakes of those
French comedies of the sixties, where it’s older women after young boys. In
this one, it’s ugly boys peeping in windows at girls and taking showers and
rubbing themselves, and these girls always have big tits. I guess that our
movies didn’t make it because our girls always had such small tits.
Monday, August 15, 1983
Cabbed to meet Jean Michel Basquiat at the workout with Lidija, he was
doing it with us (cab $5). He’s in love with Paige Powell.
Got a call from Pia Zadora who said she wanted a Dollar Sign and she’d
take it with her if it fit into her husband’s jet, so they were measuring it.
Oh, and one of the Ramones was having brain surgery yesterday because
he was kicked in the head on West 10th Street in a fight over some cheap-
looking girl.
Wednesday, August 17, 1983
I’ve been getting notes and letters slipped under the door at my house from
people I’ve given Interviews to in the neighborhood and I don’t know what
to do about that.
Went down to meet Jean Michel and did a workout with him and Lidija
(cab $5). And he has b.o. It’s like Chris who also thinks it’s sexy when you
exercise to have b.o., but I want to say, it sure isn’t. And all this b.o. has
made me think about my life and how I’m not really missing anything
great. I mean, I think of Paige having sex with Jean Michel and I think, how
could she do it. I mean, what do you do, say some hint like, “Uh, gee, why
don’t we do something wild like take a shower together?”
John Sex came by. He said his python was home molting, so it was
cranky.
Saw the show Vincent’s working on and it looks really good. We got a
great writeup in one of the video magazines.
Whitney Tower called and he was having a party at Club A (cab $5).
Whitney’s going crazy because his father’s young wife had another
baby. Cornelia called him and said, “Congratulations, you’re a brother
again!” And his mind is dividing the fortune, watching his share go down
one more time.
Then Madelaine Netter sat down and told me about how she’d been
attacked in an elevator on West 96th Street. They had her on the floor and
were ripping her clothes off and she was screaming, and suddenly she got
the idea to say, “Jesus saves.” And they freaked out and glued her back
together.
Thursday, August 18, 1983
Went to meet Jean Michel Basquiat and did a workout with Lidija (cab $5).
The Scull kid called and yelled at me for messing up his limousine the
last time, for spilling soda.
Chris called and said that Peter’s mother wanted to adopt Brian, I mean
…
Keith Haring came by with his black boyfriend and I took pictures. They
were so lovey-dovey in the photos, it was nutty to see. The big chalk
drawing of a pregnant woman on 53rd and Fifth that we thought was his—it
turns out it is, and we’re trying to get it. He did it a while ago.
Picked up Cornelia and Sean McKeon and Maura in the limo, to drive
out to Shea Stadium to see the Police, and Cornelia had hundreds of
sandwiches and champagne. The rain came down in buckets.
Ron Delsener was there and I guess he wants to be in society because he
was smooching Cornelia and Maura. François de Menil came in with
Laverne of Láveme and Shirley. And Cornelia just goes in and out. She falls
asleep on your arm, she just passes right out, and then she wakes up and has
this energy.
Sting came over and said hello, he looked a little old. He was with a girl,
I think it was his wife. And Matt Dillon! Matt Dillon was there. Oh he’s so
good-looking. And the girls finally by the time it was time to go had just
gotten to the point where they were talking to him and they didn’t want to
go. We may get him for a cover after all.
Left, dropped everyone.
My sister-in-law just called. She said that she came by my house last
night right when it started raining. So I guess I just missed her. And she said
she’s stopping by today, but I told her I’m not going to be there.
Saturday, August 20, 1983
I was reading the Life Extension book and Connoisseur magazine, and I fell
asleep, so I woke up with them on top of me.
Halston called, he said he’d left his vacation in Montauk because Victor
was going crazy and he’d gone too far. He said he’d send a car for me to
come to dinner, but I said I’d walk over, so I did. And we sat there and then
in the other room were three bodyguards that Halston had hired because
Victor threatened to come and break all the windows from the outside. You
know, Victor is saying he loves Halston too much to stand by and let him
get so grand but I mean it’s Halston who works so hard, and if he wants to
get grand then he can do it. I know, though, that the drugs do take over, so I
guess that’s what’s wrong with Victor. And Halston called Victor’s brother
who lives in town to go and help him, but the brother said, “I don’t want to
interfere in my brother’s life.”
Oh and Chris had come over to the office and told me everything that I
wanted to hear. He said, “Oh it’s over between Brian and me. We’re not
doing it anymore because we’re tired of each other.” And you can really see
what a good hustler Chris is, because everything I wanted to hear he was
telling me.
Sunday, August 21, 1983
It was a beautiful day. No one was around. So I was all by myself, but I had
courage enough to go down to the office. I take a sharp stick with me in
case the elevator doors stick, so I can pry myself out. And if I go over there
alone on the weekend 1 always tell someone I’m going.
Halston was trying all day to get Victor on the phone and finally he
seemed calmed down because Dick Cavett and Bianca had come over and
gone through The Importance of Being Earnest, playing the parts together,
and that cheered him up. Worked till 7:00. Cabbed to meet Jean Michel
Basquiat and Paige Powell ($5). And Paige is just so nutty, she laughs so
loud at nothing. I would but her in the category of schizophrenia. Jean
Michel said he never finished high school. I’m surprised, because I thought
he went to college. He’s twenty-two. Cabbed to Mr. Chow’s ($5). And
Lester Persky was there with the cute boy with white-blond hair who’s
training for the pentathalon. He wants us to put him in Interview. Lester’s
gotten so funny-looking, like a little fat Hitler.
Monday, August 22, 1983
Went to meet Jean Michel at the office and I took pictures of him in a
jockstrap.
Chris called me and he’s accusing me of just dropping him because I
don’t approve of Brian, and I mean, I guess that’s true, but still … and I
don’t know what to do about Chris. I mean, he can find a new sucker. And
anyway he gets paid for his Interview pages every month. Worked till 7:00.
Picked up Cornelia at the Waldorf (cab $6). She had a copy of the new
Life magazine that has the big spread on her and it all looked so glamorous,
really kidnappable (tip to doorman $5).
Cabbed to the Gulf + Western Building to see Timothy Hutton and
Amanda Plummer in Daniel (15). The movie is absorbing. Cornelia got so
absorbed. She’s strange. I really don’t know if she’s smart or stupid. It’s like
it used to be with like Ingrid Superstar. Cornelia just goes in and out and
sometimes she’s a moron. But oh, she got so absorbed in this, it was like a
history lesson for her, and I made a point of quizzing her on it later and she
had understood everything. This is about the Rosenbergs but it’s fictional so
they call them the Isaacsons.
And we went to Mortimer’s (cab $4) and Fred was there with his
English accent really loud, so I know he was drunk, and I was getting
scared because he was table-hopping, and I was dreading to think what he
was saying at each table.
Tuesday, August 23, 1983
Cornelia wanted to go out, and I was invited to the opening of an escalator
at Bergdorf Goodman, so I told her that and she got excited—“Oh what a
great idea, I want to go. I want to go!”
Picked her up. Got to Bergdorf’s (cab $7) and there was a waiter for
every single guest. And at the top of each escalator a male model was
waiting. John Duka from the Times was there so we were trying to be
quotable and make the papers, telling him that we’d been to openings of
doors, windows, envelopes, and now—an escalator!
Wednesday, August 24, 1983
It was a beautiful day. I left the house early in order to go see Karen Burke
to get collagen injections. She wears high heels and rides a bike, which is so
dangerous.
After the injections, Dr. Karen walked me all the way to 66th Street. The
injections did make me bleed on my face. The lines on the sides.
Thursday, August 25, 1983
I will never forgive Rupert for taking me to La Cage aux Folles on “Gay
Night.” I didn’t know it until we got there and it was nothing but faggots
and lesbians. And I thought that for $40 tickets we’d be in the orchestra, but
we were way up in the balcony because it was a benefit so the tickets
downstairs were over $100 or something. And these gays, you know, they
refuse Interviews and always pretend they don’t know who you are, and
then they go home and dish you. These two dykes came over and said hello,
and I asked them what this event was all about, and they said it was for the
“Islanders,” and I said, “The Islanders hockey team needs a gay benefit?”
and they laughed and said oh ha-ha no. And then Rupert nudged me that
they were talking about Fire Island. They said, “How’d you wind up here in
the balcony?” and I pointed at Rupert and said, “Because this creep brought
me.” Anyway the play was so boring that I fell asleep a couple of times. But
this audience, this audience. I mean, they just jumped up and laughed and
applauded every single gay line—I mean anytime anybody referred to
anything, they clapped. And everyone had a mustache, eight out of ten
people there. Finally it ended and we got out of there. The two dykes asked
me (laughs), “Are you going to Cracker jacks? To the party?”
But all that was at night. In the morning Benjamin arrived and I wasn’t
ready. Didn’t have enough Interviews to take around, just had a couple. As
we were walking on Madison between 66th and 67th, Raquel Welch came
bouncing out of a shop. She had on dark sunglasses so you almost didn’t
recognize her. She said she was looking for a Napoleon bed. I gave her Dr.
Karen’s card for collagen. Fred likes the way my treatment looks and he’s
going to get it done.
We were on Page Six because of our interview with Georgia O’Keeffe
where she called Philip Johnson a minor architect, and we left it in where I
was saying that he’s not now, and she was saying that he was then, and so
since she can’t see now, she didn’t know. So I’m bracing myself for a call
from David Whitney.
Fred says he’s not going to drink, that the other night was just too much.
Got home and there was a note that Ara Gallant called. So I called him
back and he said that Debra Winger and the governor of Nebraska were
over there, and he invited me over, but it was so late that I didn’t want to go
back out.
Talked to Jon in L.A.
Friday, August 26, 1983
Cab to meet Jean Michel Basquiat and we worked out ($6). He’s going to
rent the carriage house we own at 57 Great Jones Street. So Benjamin went
over to get a lease and I hope it works out. Jean Michel is trying to get on a
regular daily painting schedule. If he doesn’t and he can’t pay his rent it’ll
be hard to evict him. It’s always hard to get people out.
Sunday, August 28, 1983
After getting bitten some more I decided that Archie must have fleas, so I
checked and he did. Some years are good for fleas and this is one of them.
It was a hazy grey day. And in the park the Puerto Ricans were having
some sort of event. It wasn’t even Puerto Rican Day, they just create a party
and call it some occasion and then they have the park all day with mounted
policemen, beautiful mounted policemen on horses. Not one white person
in the whole park.
Monday, August 29, 1983
I just stepped in dog shit. In my hall. And I’m usually wearing slippers but
this time I wasn’t. And usually you can smell it a mile away, but it just
didn’t smell, so I just finished cleaning it up. And I’m all fleabitten. When
you know there’s fleas, you keep feeling them all the time whether they’re
there or not. So I just took a shower to get the shit off my foot and now I’m
thinking what disease I can pick up from this whole episode.
Jean Michel and I went over to Yanna’s, and we had our nails done. And
you know, my nails are getting better. The two of us would make a good
story for Vogue (pedicures $30).
Victor came by with his brother who’s so good-looking. And Victor says
his brother’s cock is so big he used to hit the table with it at breakfast. I
guess they were naked at breakfast, you know these South Americans. It
takes years to get nervous and live in an uptight situation like civilization.
But Victor’s actually made out better than his brother—his brother still has
to work.
Tuesday, August 30, 1983
Chris came by the office and he was crying and saying that he wanted
things to be back the way they used to be between us with me giving him
lots of work, but I didn’t know what to tell him because I don’t. I don’t call
him at all. I suppose I should. But I think about boys too much when I
associate with him.
The Argentine lady came and wrote out a fat check for her portraits,
which was great, it pays a month’s mortgage on the new building. And last
month Pia Zadora’s check did that, so that was a lift.
Fred went to Dr. Karen for his collagen test and he said that she’s klutzy,
and actually she is, when I think about it. One thing she’s got to learn is not
to have people lie down. Because if you lie down, all the wrinkles go away,
and how can you tell where to put the stuff? You should actually be hanging
forward or something, so the wrinkles would really be exaggerated.
Wednesday, August 31, 1983
Cab to meet Lidija ($5). Worked out with Jean Michel who brought me
some of his hair, cut off and put on a helmet. It looked great. He got Bruno
to pay his first month’s security and rent. He wanted to buy the Great Jones
Street carriage house from me but I told him that together with our other
one around the corner from it on the Bowery it was a nice lot, and that we
might put a theater on it some day. He and Paige had a big fight because
they had a date for 9:00 and he didn’t show up till 1:00.
And I’m so mad at Scavullo. Those pictures he did of me for the Jordan
Marsh catalogue, he made me look so ugly. He didn’t air-brush at all, and
he’s an air-brush queen! But he didn’t do it for me. I’d like to call him up
and tell him off, but then he’d say, “We can only work with what you give
us, darling.”
Nelson called and said that Joe Dallesandro is driving a cab in L.A. Why
can’t Joe just get some woman to support him? Or somebody. He still has a
big dick. He’s stupid. S-T-U-P-I-D. And I don’t know what happened with
Heat. They were showing it on Friday night at the New York Film Festival
—they were doing a series on movies that had opened there in the past. I
didn’t hear a thing about it.
Then Christopher wanted to have dinner. He said he hadn’t eaten all day
so he promised that he would actually eat the dinner and not have it
wrapped to take home. We thought of the Water Club but then decided on
the Jockey Club at the Ritz Carlton (dinner $250 with tip).
Friday, September 2, 1983
Jean Michel didn’t show up for the workout because he was up all night. He
was in love that day with Paige. Pia Zadora called to invite us to a party at
Bob Guccione’s on Tuesday. She wants me to present her with the portraits
there.
And the new building, the new building. I’m trying to start to pack up at
860, but I just want to throw my hands up in the air.
Monday, September 5, 1983
Labor Day. Jean Michel called, he wanted some philosophy, he came over
and we talked, and he’s afraid he’s just going to be a flash in the pan. And I
told him not to worry, that he wouldn’t be. But then I got scared because
he’s rented our building on Great Jones and what if he is a flash in the pan
and doesn’t have the money to pay his rent (supplies $35.06, $6)?
Pia Zadora called and said she was coming down. And they all came—
her husband Riklis, his mother, and some other guy. I’d done twelve
portraits of her. And they just liked two and they weren’t the ones that I
thought were the best. So we have all these portraits left over. But we were
lucky, she bought the Dollar Sign. Worked alone till 6:00. Got depressed. It
was hot and muggy.
Tuesday, September 6, 1983
Sent Jay home early to dress up so he could come with Benjamin and me to
the Penthouse party for Pia Zadora and carry the portraits. Walked over to
the party at Bob Guccione’s in my neighborhood. And Guccione said to me
that the time seemed “right” now to really do porno photographs with
celebrities, and I put my foot in it, I said (laughs), “How about Cornelia
Guest?” I don’t know what made me say it. Guccione was wearing a shirt
and tie, he had his gold chains covered over. I’d heard he was in the hospital
for a head tumor or something like that, but maybe it was hair transplants.
Pia had on a beautiful ring—a diamond with blue sapphires, and she was
wearing a Bob Mackie, red, white, and with a blue star. It really was a
beautiful dress. Slit up to the ass and when the wind blew once, one of the
photographers groaned, “Oh my God, I missed a pussy shot.” And the
funniest line was one Benjamin heard. When they showed the portraits, one
of the photographers said, “How could Andy Warhol sink to such
mediocrity?” and the photographer he said it to said, “What do you mean?
He’s famous for sinking to mediocrity.”
And it’s funny because there everybody is at this party for her and they
still all put her down. Oh, but I was gushing because Riklis came over and
said, “How can we get the rest of the portraits? Let’s talk about it.” I was
thrilled.
I snuck out at 7:30. Left Jay there looking for Bunnies. Or whatever
Penthouse has. Pets.
Wednesday, September 7, 1983
I called Robert Hayes. Told him about getting Matt Dillon for the cover and
he was excited about that, but he didn’t like my idea of Shirley MacLaine.
I’m trying to sell magazines. Maybe those ladies who watch Donahue will
buy Interview if they see Shirley on the cover.
Monday, September 12, 1983
Jean Michel was late and he had to go back downtown so he was missing
his pedicure. So I went over there and took his appointment ($35). And
Yanna’s son came over from the School of Visual Arts around the corner, he
was cute, he had blue eyes.
Then Mrs. de Menil was having a party for the Lalanne guy who did the
sheep-to-sit-on furniture in the sixties. It’s French week at Bloomingdale’s.
When we got there I said to Mrs. de Menil that gee, she was a great-
grandmother—Tiya just had a baby—and I guess I shouldn’t have said that
because she can’t face it, but what I meant was that she looks so beautiful,
much better than her kids.
I talked to Peter Schjeldahl the art critic who I know hates me, but I was
working hard for him to like me, so we talked about Ted Berrigan dying
from diet pills and Coke—the soda. He just wouldn’t stop drinking it and it
ate out his stomach.
And Jean Stein was there and I guess Peter believed everything in Edie.
Then left there and Benjamin walked me home.
Tuesday, September 13, 1983
Jean Michel came over, he was drugged-out and excited, he brought a
painting he wanted to show me. He told me a story about how he’d wanted
to buy a pack of cigarettes so he did a drawing and sold it for $.75 and then
a week later his gallery called up and said they had this drawing of his there
and should they buy it for $1,000. Jean Michel thought it was funny. It is.
And he was on his way upstairs to see if anybody would buy a painting of
his for $2. I mean, because now his paintings go for $15,000 and so he
wanted to see if anybody would give him $2 for one. Lidija was there, did a
workout. Oh, and the girl Jean Michel took around the world and left in
London arrived in New York and wanted a ticket back to California.
Saturday, September 17, 1983
Got up at 6:00 to go out on the second day of shooting the TDK ad in
Queens. But it’s worth it when you get a fat check. We were supposed to
work until 5:30 but we finished by noon. We went out to 45th Boulevard or
whatever it was in Long Island City. The twenty Japs were waiting. And the
crew—ten American guys, so good-looking. Like Mafia or Irish. With the
gay fashion look of bracelets and pink shirts and pink belts. They’re
straight, but that’s how those film-crew guys dress now.
We decided to go to dinner at the Café Seiyoken at 9:30. Picked up
Bianca who was staying at the house of Marcie Klein’s boyfriend. And I
guess Calvin really is trying to have a hot media affair with his assistant
Kelly. And Bianca was trying so hard to get him.
So we went to Café Seiyoken and I introduced Bianca to Keith Haring. I
bet she wants him to do a mural for free in her apartment. She says she
wants to interview him for Interview, and she also wants to interview
Rauschenberg and all the artists.
Rauschenberg was there. He was drinking Jack Daniel’s and he came
over and he was sweet. I think he said he’s working on costumes for Laurie
Anderson but the Cafe Seiyoken is so noisy, though, you can’t talk to
people (dinner $450). I don’t think I’ll go back again because of the noise,
but they’re advertisers, so it was good to go.
Then Steve sent his driver to pick us up to go to meet them at that
VanDam restaurant. And so we went and in addition to Steve and Ryan and
Farrah, Bob Colacello was there. And Bob looks good, he was his old story-
telling self. Ryan is so desperate, he calls you “Baby” and “Honey” and he
kisses all the boys on the lips, it’s so sick. Farrah was also so peculiar. She
made Keith draw on her arm. And then Ryan and Farrah were nervous so
they took a walk around the block to smoke a joint. Because I guess it was
tense because Bianca had had an affair with Ryan.
Then I raved to Steve about Area, the new disco at 157 Hudson Street,
and we went there. I’d been to the opening the other night, and so the guy
let us in, but Steve shoved him aside and motioned us all in the door. It was
funny, it was (laughs) like he was the club owner and letting us in, but he’d
never even been there before. Marcie Klein was there and she could only
talk about wanting to meet Rob Lowe.
Then it was 3:00 and Bianca wanted to go, so I dropped her at Marcie
Klein’s boyfriend’s house, and then dropped Marcie on 83rd Street (cab
$10).
Sunday, September 18, 1983
Couldn’t get up after being up so late till 3:00. Saw the dogs off for the day.
Nobody called because I guess I’d driven them crazy during the week. Went
to church. Walked up to the Frick (admission $4) and gee, it’s amazing how
rich people were. One of the guards knew me, named Fayette, and he gave
me a free catalogue.
Then Jon and I walked to the Castle in Central Park. Went to the
Boathouse and we rented a rowboat ($20). We rowed for an hour and it was
like modern Seurat, all these people on the lake. We got stuck on a rock and
then four girls rammed into us, that was fun. And then they were gone and
Jon and I were alone and then I thought I was Shelley Winters in A Place in
the Sun. I can’t swim.
Then went home. Decided to see the Presented by Coppola movie at the
57th Street Playhouse. It was boring. Like being at the Cinematheque in the
sixties, that kind of a movie. Cuts together, a guy cutting salami, eating a
Twinkie, clouds going faster than they should through the sky— everything
you never wanted to see. It was over quickly though. And it was packed,
crowds waiting to get in (popcorn $5).
And then I couldn’t sleep because I’ve been taking these things called
taurine and l-argentine and cystine. And selenium. From the Life Extension
book and from the nutritionist kid, Shea. S-H-E-A. I always spell it because
he always spells it. He says, “I’m Shea. S-H-E-A.” I had to get up three or
four times to pee because of them.
Tuesday, September 20, 1983
Got picked up early by Benjamin. Went to Hãagen-Dazs and got energized
and walked all the way down to Interview on 32nd Street (phone calls $.60).
Cab to meet Lidija ($4). Jean Michel didn’t show up for the workout
because he was up all night with Paige. He’s going off to Zurich. He hasn’t
moved into Great Jones Street yet. It was a busy afternoon. Worked on the
Cocteau drawings for Pierre Berge with Rupert. Painted. Worked until 7:30
(cab $6). Worked at home. Read magazines.
Thursday, September 22, 1983
Got up early and went to get collagen at 1050 Park Avenue at Karen
Burke’s. She talks your head off. She had people waiting but she rattled on
for an hour. She did my neck and it was so painful, like going to torture.
She gave me her life story while I was on the table.
When I got to the office Brigid had just had her cat Jimmy put to sleep.
And I got so mad and told her how could she have done it when she didn’t
even take it to another doctor for a second opinion. And Rupert had offered
to take it to Pennsylvania because sometimes things can just change and the
cat can get better, but she didn’t even tell him, so he never got the chance.
She’d been having to shoot it up every day because it had kidney problems,
and she was afraid it was going to start peeing on her rug. Jimmy was cute.
Decided to go to Richard Weisman’s party for Catherine Oxenberg’s
birthday at Le Club. The last time I saw Catherine Oxenberg was at a party
in Spain given by Marc Rich, and he was in the newspapers yesterday
because he owes the government more evaded taxes than anybody in
history, hundreds of millions or something. I took pictures of the birthday
girl.
Friday, September 23, 1983
Then this was the night of Drue Heinz’s big seventy-fifth birthday party for
her husband Jack. It was at their townhouse on Riverview Terrace, off
Sutton Place, outside in the back, and she had the whole waterfront lit up.
There were crowds of people. About fifty tables with ten people at each
table, and they were all in costumes of 1890,I was the only one in black tie.
Ahmet Ertegun was in a fez. Jerry Zipkin had a mustache. I ran into Mrs.
Heinz when I got there and told her my date Cornelia had cancelled, and
she said, “Well in that case you’ll be sitting next to no one.” And I asked her
where Malcolm Forbes was because I had something for him, and she said,
“Oh just throw it over the wall.” I didn’t know what to think about that, she
was just being glib. So I was supposed to be at table 2, which was a good
table, but when I got there my name wasn’t on any of the cards.
I ran into Jeane Kirkpatrick who I’ve been watching on TV because of
the Korean flight 007 Soviet thing, and that was exciting.
So I’d been moved to Table 18 and there was no other person at this
huge table except for some artist who was doing work for the Heinzes. It
was so strange—there we were alone and all the really important people
were up another level. Tom Wolfe was next to a man, too. But I mean, this
artist and I, we were down there alone. He was actually cute and fun. I
thought he was gay because he was alone, but he said they’d told him he
couldn’t bring a date so his girl didn’t come. His name was Ned. And so we
gave each other the presents we’d brought for Mr. Heinz. His is still
wrapped—it’s a drawing and I haven’t unwrapped it because it looks so
nice wrapped.
They had fireworks. And I got drunk. The food was good, not the canned
stuff. They had 100 waiters, great-looking fairies, and they couldn’t figure
out why we were down there alone at this table. People came and asked us
to go up, but I didn’t. Henry Geldzahler was there and he asked, but I
didn’t. Then Ned said he had to go to the bathroom, and I said if he did I
was leaving and he said, “Tough”—he was drunk, too. But I didn’t leave. It
was so cold, I just lose my thinking when it gets cold. You just sit there like
a bump. If all this had happened inside somebody’s house I would have
gotten up and left right away, but I just felt stuck. I just sat there in the cold.
And then the artist came back and then I left. Before dessert. It was the
strangest thing, and my last party at the Heinzes’.
Saturday, September 24, 1983
Worked with Benjamin till 7:00 (cab $6). Then the guy from Harper & Row
who wants me to do the America book called and said he wanted to take me
to dinner at Texarkana and we said we’d meet at 9:00. Cabbed there ($6).
It’ll be a book of photographs with just a little text— maybe just captions.
Ran into Ronnie Cutrone and a whole bunch of forty people and they
had just come from Ronnie’s show that said on the invitation “In memory of
my father.” And Benjamin and I had intended to go, but then we were
carrying things home and just forgot, but you can’t say, “I forgot.” So it was
really embarrassing. Tony Shafrazi was there and Keith Haring, and Lou
Reed looking so glum, so peculiar. His wife looks more Puerto Rican every
time I see her. I don’t know if Lou is big or not. Rolling Stone gave his
album four stars, but was it a hit? Ronnie said Lou’s in A.A. so I guess he’s
not drinking. But Sam the next night was telling me that he saw Lou at the
Ninth Circle drinking, but maybe he was just there picking up boys. But
then he lived in that neighborhood, anyway, so maybe he was just hanging
out. Ronnie said that when he goes to visit Lou in the country that he’s
always just bought another motorcycle and another piece of land.
So after I’d sat there so long with this Harper & Row guy, Craig Nelson,
he still hadn’t gotten the check and how long can you wait, so I asked for
the check and he didn’t offer to pay it. It was $100 with tip. Dropped Craig
Nelson at his pad on Avenue A (cab $8).
Sunday, September 25, 1983
Woke up freezing. Went to church.
Called Curley and he discouraged me from having dinner with him and
his friends saying that it was a great night to stay home, but that if I really
wanted to come out they had reservations at this one place. So I could take
a hint. Then I called Mark, the kid from the Pedantiks, and we arranged to
meet at Texarkana. He said he was bringing the guy named Sam from his
group. Then I called Jay Shriver and he said he’d fallen asleep and just
couldn’t drag himself out that night, so I said okay (cab downtown $6). Met
Sam and Mark on the street on the way in.
Anyway, during dinner we talked about rock, I guess. Mark has blond
hair and he looks regular, you’d never think he was gay. Sam’s teeth are bad
and he looks grey, but then I guess rock and roll isn’t healthy and these kids
do start to look like that. We were there for a while and suddenly over
walked Jay!He’d been there for half an hour sitting at the bar and he
thought I’d seen him but actually I hadn’t. And then after drinking he got
too paranoid and decided to come over and face me. But I never would even
have seen him. I can’t see with my new contacts. I don’t even know which
ones I’ve got on. He was there to try to pick up the waitress he’d seen the
night before. I felt really mad at him because he’d lied and said that he
wasn’t going out. I mean, all he had to do was tell the truth. I mean, I’m not
a kid (dinner $120).
Called Benjamin a few times but he said he was tired because he’d
worked till 5:00 at the Pyramid Club as a drag queen. But Mark is a
doorman at the Pyramid and he said they close before that, so I don’t know
if Benjamin was lying to me, too.
So then dropped Mark and Sam off ($6) and when I got home I was just
so mad at Jay and all these kids. I felt so used and abused and lied to.
Watched a good TV show on HBO. For the first time I saw why Andy
Kaufman was funny, so clever. He had a plant in the audience saying, “You
don’t do anything new—the same old routine for ten years,” and then the
guy is yelling the lines with him, and then Andy Kaufman really starts to
sweat and you don’t know if it’s real or not. It was very, very good. Talked
to Jon in Los Angeles.
Monday, September 26, 1983
I’d been hating the Republicans so much since the other night at Drue
Heinz’s, but I’ll really change my mind today if we find out that Ron Jr. was
able to get an interview with his father for Interview. For the January cover.
I mean, wouldn’t that just put Interview on the map? I’d even vote
Republican. I know I don’t vote but I’m thinking of registering again,
because they just started getting the jury-duty lists from the tax rolls instead
of the voter things, and so I got one.
Tuesday, September 27, 1983
Vincent is shooting Joanne Winship talking about her annual charity thing.
You never hear about her since she got sick. It’s so quick what happens in
New York. You can just get forgotten in five minutes. Less. You can see
millions of people all the time every night for years, and then they can
forget you in a minute. Benjamin arrived early to pick me up. He wasn’t in
drag. I wish he would be. He looks so much more masculine when he goes
into drag. It’s strange because he looks so slight and girlish as a boy, and
then he goes into drag and you notice his hands are so veiny and he has big
shoulders and tough hands.
I’d like to start wearing lipstick at night so my lips look fuller, but I’m
afraid I’d get stuck under a bright light someplace.
Wednesday, September 28, 1983
Bianca called and asked me to the lunch at Da Silvano that she was having
for the Nicaraguan Sandinista cultural minister. A girl. There was an
American guy who was like de Antonio, being Communist—Peter Davis,
he did a movie called Hearts and Minds. And Clemente the Italian artist
was there, and gee, I like him a lot—he’s picked up the American attitude.
He understands American humor, which is so strange, because you don’t
understand how a person from another country can pick it up. He doesn’t
say much, he just sits and eats and watches. Bianca’s trying to get him to do
a free mural for her apartment. She’s buttering up all the artists.
And this other guy at the lunch had been a political prisoner somewhere
in South America I think, and now he works for Mitterrand.
It turned into a five-hour lunch. The Nicaraguan cultural minister girl
didn’t get there until late. She’s almost as pretty as Bianca. And she says,
“Oh yes, people think we don’t have art in a revolution but even as the
bombs are falling and the bullets are flying, people are still making art. We
have dancers and painters and photographers, and we’re becoming
unionized "I mean … and then she was saying how the true revolution is
really winning out, that “the people are having their day.” And I don’t know,
it was all so abstract, but then being at that big Heinz party the other night
with all those rich Republicans I got a creepy feeling there, too. It’s like any
people when they have the power, they don’t want anyone else to ever get
it. It’s like women trying to keep their husbands away from seeing what
young girls look like. But I guess that’s not only the rich.
Anyway, they’re saying they want us to come down to Nicaragua and,
and I don’t know, support their art cause. And Clemente is saying, “Oh
yeah, sure, and lose the green card I went through so much to get.” And
then when we were finally done, the rebel girl got into her limousine, and
the Socialist who works for Mitterrand got into his limousine, and we went
down to Clemente’s loft, which is right next to Tower Records, and his loft
is just beautiful. It’s really an artist’s loft, big paintings all over. He
produces a lot. So many paintings. And the Mitterrand guy was awful, he
walked on one of them that was on the floor and pretended he thought it
was a rug, but I just know he knew it was a painting.
Then they wanted to see my “studio” so we went to the office, and there
was just nothing there. The contrast was so—evident. We’ve gotten so
involved with fashion that we don’t know about all these other things like
wars and governments anymore. I didn’t have any art to show them. They
wanted to see movies, but I didn’t have any movies, either.
So finally they all left. I worked till 7:30 and Cornelia called and asked
where I was because she was ready, and I had a black tie down there, so I
just stuck it on and went to the Waldorf Towers. I asked her to be
downstairs since we were late, but she said, “I don’t want to wait
downstairs like a prostitute.” So when I got there the doorman was so
dumb, after fifteen minutes of me sitting in the cab he came out and said
there was no Mr. Warhol staying there. So I did it myself, rang Cornelia’s
room and she came down in a red dress looking like a hooker. But beautiful.
She’s put on a little weight. Oh, and I saw Mrs. Douglas MacArthur while I
was waiting and she was great. She’s eighty-four or something and still has
all her marbles. And me, I can barely walk. So then Cornelia came and we
went to the Pierre (cab $8) to this fashion show for charity that Joanne
Winship organized.
Oh, and at lunch I brought up the Liz Smith items about Calvin and his
model Kelly to Bianca, saying the papers said they were such a hot item,
and Bianca said, “Ha-ha! What a joke!” So that’s her position.
Thursday, September 29, 1983
I woke up with flea bites and that made me hysterical. I ran out and bought
flea collars for my ankles.
Cabbed downtown ($5) to the new chic supermarket at Park Avenue and
18th Street, the Food Emporium, but a gay guy there made my sandwiches
and so I couldn’t eat them.
Kenny Scharf came by, he just bought a $2,000 house in Bahia and eats
coconuts all day. His wife’s having a baby. His father must be a semi-rich
producer. Kenny met his wife on a plane to Carnival.
Then Keith Haring came by after getting a B-12 shot from Dr. Giller,
and it was like the sixties when the kids would get shot up and come back
so bubbly. And Keith was ranting and raving about this black graffiti artist
that’s in the papers now because the police killed him—Michael Stewart.
And Keith said that he’s been arrested by the police four times, but that
because he looks normal they just sort of call him a fairy and let him go.
But this kid that was killed, he had the Jean Michel look—dreadlocks.
Worked all afternoon. Dropped Benjamin (cab $7). Glued myself and
went over to Engine’s alone, she was having a party for Julio Iglesias’s
birthday, and Lester Persky was arriving when I was, and we went in as a
couple, and there were cameras but everybody said it was (laughs) just
Spanish television. The usual people there, “Suzy” and Jerry Zipkin and
Cornelia. And Julio Iglesias looks different than in pictures. He’s 6’3” and
very handsome with a very dark tan, and teeth that are practically
fluorescent. He was very friendly as if he really knew me. Maybe he knows
somebody that we know who talks about us all the time. And Cornelia sat
near so she could catch his eye. Halston had called and said to come over to
his place afterwards.
So I went to Halston’s and Jane Holzer was there and Halston was doing
the same “I’m so rich” routine, but I mean, he must be worried after that
thing came out in Fortune where the guy who owns him now said he was
thinking of selling him.
Oh, and Halston asked again about meeting Jerry Hall. He still wants to
make Bianca jealous. But now that Jerry’s pregnant, it’ll be hard to dress
her.
Saturday, October 1, 1983
Had to get up early. Maura and I were scheduled to interview Matt Dillon at
Fred’s house. Finally Matt came and sat in the kitchen and Maura
interviewed him. He’s only nineteen. Maura asked the same things she
always asks: “Are you Catholic?” and “Are you Irish?” He said yes. It’s
going to be the same exact interview as Brooke Shields.
Wednesday, October 5, 1983—New York—Milan
Got up early, tried to pack, was picked up by Benjamin (cab $6.50). Jean
Michel Basquiat came by the office to work out with Lidija and I told him I
was going to Milan and he said he’d go, too, that he’d meet us at the airport.
Worked all afternoon till 4:30.
I hadn’t thought Jean Michel would come, but while I was waiting in
line at the airport he appeared, he was just so nutty but cute and adorable.
He hadn’t slept in four days, he said he was going to watch me sleep. He
had snot all over the place. He was blowing his nose in paper bags. It was
as bad as Christopher. Paige has turned him into sort of a gentleman,
though, because now he’s taking baths. We arrived in Milan practically on
time. Arrived at the famous hotel, I forget the name.
Thursday, October 6, 1983—Milan
Did five or ten interviews this day, they kept coming in one at a time. Went
out to lunch at some great restaurant. Really good food, people looked so
beautiful, think we did a lot of Interview advertising work. Had a big dinner
at some new disco place with all the beautiful models.
Got home. Jean Michel came by and said he was depressed and was
going to kill himself and I laughed and said it was just because he hadn’t
slept for four days, and then after a while of that he went back to his room.
Friday, October 7, 1983—Milan
Had to do some more press. Then we had an opening of a gallery with two
paintings, and forty million people came to a little hallway to see them. Just
too crowded. Had to get dressed for a big dinner party for Leandro Gualtieri
and his wife, Regina Schrecker the designer. Jean Michel came back and I
got him to do artwork on plates so we gave everyone a portrait on a plate.
And it was glamorous and the kids went off dancing and Jean Michel made
a big play for Joanna Carson who was in Milan.
Saturday, October 8, 1983—Milan—Paris
Jean Michel came in when we were leaving. He said he was staying on with
Keith Haring to get publicity—Keith had come in from Spain with Kenny
Scharf to paint Fiorucci (concierge $30, bellboys $20, maid $10, magazines
$10, doorman $5, taxi to airport $30).
Tuesday, October 11, 1983—Paris—New York
When I got home to 66th Street I didn’t shower because I knew that if I did
I’d never get to work. I was wearing (laughs) “Essence of France”—b.o.
There was a strange picture of Mayor Koch in the paper, sneering at Nixon
at the Cardinal Cooke funeral. It was a weird picture (cab $6). Met Lidija.
Had a lot of coffee.
Worked till 7:00 or 7:30. Ronnie Cutrone came by and said that he was
in Milan when we were and that Jean Michel went off to Madrid. Jean
Michel’s trying to get so famous so fast, and if it works, he’ll have it, I
guess.
Wednesday, October 12, 1983
I tried to get Thomas Ammann all day but he wasn’t around. He still wants
to rent part of my house—the second floor—to show his paintings in and I
don’t know how to get out of it, because you can’t keep that kind of thing a
secret, people would know it was my house. It’s just a little too hard.
And Paige is really upset because Jean Michel hasn’t called her. He
hasn’t called us, either. She sells his paintings, she’s been doing that for a
while. And he dropped Mary Boone—she took 50 percent, Paige only takes
10 percent. He’s still with Bruno, though, so that’s how he’ll still be shown.
I told Paige that Jean Michel was after Joanna Carson in Milan, and maybe
I shouldn’t have. Paige said she might just forget him, that it had to be all or
nothing. But naturally people are people and a fool is a fool so no matter
what they say, they’ll just go on being in love.
Thursday, October 13, 1983
Princess Caroline was getting to the office at 9:00 to pose for the December
cover of French Vogue. She’s the guest editor for this year’s Christmas issue
and I was asked to photograph her. So rushed (cab $6.50). She was already
there, but it took her one or two hours to get dressed. And they wanted
pictures of me taking the pictures of her so I called Chris and he came over.
She’s pretty but she looks forty. She looks like she’s really been through the
mill. But they know how to pull her together. She had a Japanese makeup
guy.
Paul Morrissey was there driving us all up the wall. He wants to do a
remake of Pepe Le Moko with children. Paul does have good ideas, though,
so if we could just work with him and get him to not think the old-fashioned
drug-trash way He had Brigid retyping some contracts.
Tuesday, October 18, 1983
Jean Michel came by and I slapped him in the face. (laughs) I’m not
kidding. Kind of hard. It shook him up a little. I told him, “How dare you
dump us in Milan!” Benjamin put me up to it.
Wednesday, October 19, 1983
The tree in front of my house hasn’t grown an inch all season. The ginkgo.
It’s still green, but it hasn’t grown. Benjamin says it has to dig its roots in
first. It’s pretty, though. Small and pretty and green.
There were articles in the papers about the police arresting the “Sidney
Poitier and Diahann Carroll son” for being an imposter. He was staying at
all these people’s houses. Halston was smart that time, right away he told
him to leave. You could just tell in a second that this kid was lying. But
these other people all let him stay at their houses! I mean, he could have
been anybody, he could have just wiped out a whole family.
Friday, October 21,1983
There was a big lunch at the office for the English contingent and Tab
Hunter and his new producer who wants me to do a poster for the movie,
and an interviewer from Amsterdam. Jean Michel came in and Paige Powell
was there with some clients. And Paige had set it up for Jean Michel to go
to Vassar with Jennifer that night to give a talk—Jennifer goes to school
there now—and the car was going to pick them all up.
But Jean Michel told me he didn’t want to take Paige up to Vassar with
him because he would be wanting to fuck the girls up there. So when I got
home there was a message from Robert Hayes saying Paige was hysterical
because Jean Michel had never come in the car to pick her up. So that was
mean. And I told her that that’s the way life goes and I said we’d go out for
drinks and I called Sean McKeon to come with us so that I could handle it
better. And Sean’s had a crush on me for a few years, and it’s nice to be
around someone who likes you. That was him in the sunglasses in People
this week.
So we went to the Mayfair and had two champagnes and a coffee ($40).
And Paige was so upset—here she’d just handed Jean Michel a $20,000
check for selling some of his paintings. She said she’d never show or sell
his stuff again. I told her I’d let her do an exhibit of my work called “The
Worst of Warhol” where I would just go into my closets and find all the
really horrible stuff that had never worked out, so then she cheered up a
little. But then in a little while she left because she was still so nervous.
Sean dropped me and I went to bed.
Sunday, October 23, 1983
There’s a painting of mine going up for auction soon, and it’s only
estimated at $100,000. I think it’s a Coke Bottle. And Roy’s things go for
five, six, or seven, and Jasper’s go for a million.
Monday, October 24, 1983
It’s freezing and the heat’s not coming up. And I’m still having waterbug
problems. I corner this one bug every night and then I can’t bring myself to
kill it. He’s been eating my food for the past three years.
I was reading the Barbara Hutton book and the best thing is she had
servants wiping her ass. This is at the end when they’re robbing her blind.
And in the end she was so poor from all these people taking her money that
she had to go and ask the people she’d given gifts to if she could have them
back—oh, but wait. It could have just been the people working for her who
decided to do it. I didn’t think of that …
I just keep worrying that I’ve made a mistake buying the 33rd Street
building. Maybe we just should have bought it and turned it over right
away. But it’s the real estate key to that whole block, because of the T
shape. There’s a truck coming on Friday to move some things out of 860.
Tuesday, October 25,1983
Went to that restaurant Santa Fe (cab $5.50) and Bianca was on time. Then
Calvin arrived with the interviewer from Playboy. Jean Michel had his hand
on Bianca’s knee—she giggled. Then the greatest moment came when I
went to pay the bill and Bianca said Calvin had paid.
Bianca said she wanted to go to where they were shooting Rhinestone on
West Broadway, at one of the galleries. So we went down there and found
Steve Rubell. Then Stallone came over. He’s hot for Bianca, I think, he saw
her and came right over. And I yapped about where was my role in
Rhinestone that I’d paid $5,000 to get at some Marvin Davis charity auction
out in Colorado. And they’d turned this art gallery into a bar for the movie.
You could see how much money they’re spending. It was the first time I’d
been to a movie set where they’d really turned something into something
else completely. Zooms and booms all over the street. I thought the cab that
was sitting behind me was part of the movie, but then it turned out it wasn’t,
so I got in and took it home ($6).
Wednesday, October 26, 1983
Jean Michel was at the office all afternoon. Paige came in but left in a huff.
I guess it’s over between them because he wants to be free and easy and she
wants to be involved.
Thursday, October 27, 1983
Gael Love called up screaming that the newsstand dealers were mad
because I was out on the streets passing out complimentary new issues
before it even got to their stands to sell and I told her I’d do whatever I
wanted to do.
The Richard Gere issue was I think our biggest seller yet, even though
the interview inside was so bad. So it doesn’t matter, it’s just if it’s
somebody they want to read about.
Tuesday, November 1, 1983
Cabbed to meet Lidija ($6). A German kid was at 860 and said he’d been to
that bar Cowboys the night before and that the AIDS scare is over, that “the
mood is back.” And Robert Hayes’s boyfriend who has it is in town staying
with him. They can’t give him chemotherapy because something else
happens when they do.
And now Jean Michel has this blonde WASP girl that he’s fucking. I
think he hates all white women.
And Cornelia’s taken my scarf. She always goes out with no clothes on
and see-through dresses and then she complains she’s too cold. So she took
the great red scarf that I got at a fashion show, so that’s the end of that. And
it was finally the right red.
Thursday, November 3, 1983
Brooke Hayward called and wants to do an interview with me about Mick.
She’s doing the research for that book they gave Mick the big advance for.
And she got tough with me. She said, “Listen here,” and I thought if she’s
like that already … oh, she’s no good, she can’t do anything. I did like
Haywire, but she’s a one-book girl. And anyway, I hate her because I keep
on remembering that it was her and Jean Stein that got me in all this IRS
trouble because they’re the ones that asked me to do a McGovern poster,
and I wanted to do something clever, so I got that bright idea to do a green
face of Nixon with “Vote McGovern” under it. And that’s when the IRS got
so interested in me.
Walked to the new offices on 33rd Street and picked up a phone and
made my first phone call from there. I was there to scout corners where we
could store props. It’s filled up already and I haven’t even moved my stuff
in yet. And my house is starting to look so bad, too. I want to take pictures
of the clutter, but my camera focuses on areas so small that everything just
looks neat because I don’t get the bigger picture of the big mess that the
little areas are all part of.
Robyn decided to leave his job to go work for the Tower Gallery. I don’t
think it’ll last, though. He wants to be an artist and he feels that’s closer.
Tuesday, November 8, 1983
At the auction last night, my Triple Elvis went for $135,000, so that’s good.
It was estimated at $70,000-$90,000. But Thomas Ammann bid $440,000
for one of David Whitney’s Rauschenbergs.
Thursday, November 10, 1983
A Wall Street Journal reporter called and said she was doing a story on “clubs” and wanted to go to Area and the
Limelight and the Cat Club with me, but I think she’s just got bongo drums in her pants and wants to run around to
the clubs so she says she’s doing articles on them.
Yes, I am happy about the $135,000 price for the Coke Bottle. Everybody thought it was good. Thomas told me
that the Elvis went for $146,000. And Thomas bought a Flower painting for $40,000. It’s worth a lot more, though.
Someday …
I went to La Côte Basque to meet Mrs. Fortabat, the Argentinian lady who bought Whitney Tower’s
grandmother’s Turner for $6 million. She’s having her face treated by Karen Burke, too. She said she’s starting a
concrete business in the United States, and I told her that meant she’d be joining the Mafia, and she laughed and
told me I was “charming.”
Saturday, November 12, 1983
Ran into a neighbor from Montauk, the guy with the second house over from our place, and I told him that I was
planning to do “a big earth work with parked trailers.” And he didn’t even laugh, he had no sense of humor, he
didn’t know I was kidding, he got upset. And he made a point of telling me that he just spent $20,000 stopping the
condos, so now I’m expecting a bill from him. I told him Lauren Hutton was building a house, and he told me Paul
Simon was, too.
Went to see Rear Window and I was next to a black guy who wouldn’t move, but when he saw it was me he
said, “Us Leos do what we want to do, right?” He had b.o. He was intellectual, he laughed in the right places. I
loved the movie, it was beautiful Technicolor like they don’t make anymore.
Sunday, November 13, 1983
I’ve been trying to get Keith Haring and Thomas Ammann together for a dinner because Thomas wants to have it,
and so I called Keith and he was just getting up, he and Juan had been to the Paradise Garage until 8 A.M. and
they’d slept all day.
At 9:00 Thomas picked me up and he said Richard Gere and Silvinha would meet us at VanDam, so we went
down there and it was empty on Sunday night. Had broiled fish but didn’t eat it. Richard was wearing a little hat
and a mustache, and that’s his look from The Cotton Club. And he was screaming about newspapers never getting
things right, he was grand. He said he only came because he wanted to meet Keith Haring. He’s buying art. He
told me how he threw a Come painting of mine into the fireplace. What happened was I’d given Jean Michel a
Come painting and he had it with him when he and Richard got drunk together, and Jean Michel didn’t have
anything to write his phone number on for Richard Gere except this painting of mine, so he wrote it on that and
gave the painting to Richard. Then when Richard woke up the next morning he said he saw it and thought it was
disgusting and threw it into the fire. I told him it was my come but actually it was Victor’s. And Richard said that if
he had all the money he wanted, he’d buy all the paintings of Balthus, who does the little girls smiling like after
sex. They cost over a million now.
Monday, November 14, 1983
Dolly Fox came by but she didn’t bring her roommates or anything. She’s a struggling girl trying to make it, only
she lives on 61st and Park Avenue and she struggles from there.
Wednesday, November 16, 1983
Jay was upset because I said no to his idea of making the Madison Avenue side of the building a discotheque that
he and Benjamin would run, so he was moody.
And Vincent was in a bad mood because he went to Madison Square Garden TV for a meeting and it looks like
they’re cancelling our show. They never got the point of our shows—they’re a sports network and they said they
wanted to branch out, but …
Friday, November 18, 1983
I went to Karen Burke the collagen girl and with everything she said she put her foot in her mouth. She was saying
that she wanted to do a study of the skin of homosexual men because of the sperm they would have swallowed,
and she mentioned me as an example and I just looked at her and I told her, “Listen. I haven’t swallowed any
sperm.” And she knew she’d made a mistake. And then I asked her if she was going to have collagen and she said
oh no, that she was allergic. It was like, “Me take collagen? Are you crazy?” So she put her foot in it again. And
then she said, “Oh, and I’ll give you credit on the line of natural-foods cosmetics that I’ll be developing.” And I
mean, this was the idea that I told her the week before! To have butter creams and all refrigerator cosmetics that
you have to replace all the time. And so I just told her, “Well I’ll be in business with you, so …”
Sunday, November 20, 1983
Cornelia called a couple of times, she was cancelling as my date for the “Marilyn” play opening. The show opened
at 6:00 and it should have closed right then. It was silly. The girl playing Marilyn was very good, though, she has
star quality and she could sing, but I guess it’s the book that’s so bad. When it was over, we lied and said how
great it was. Ran into Lester Persky and Truman Capote who looked pickled. And Truman kissed my hand. What
does that mean? And I asked him if he was going to the party afterwards and he said, “No. I can drink at home.”
Got home and saw a little of the Kennedy Years thing on TV and Republicans must have done the script
because it had Jackie worrying about the curtains when they were having the Cuban crisis. Fell asleep watching.
Wednesday, November 23, 1983
Had an appointment to go see Doc Cox, but when I got there, there really wasn’t anything to do. Bubbles is just
crazy. She said that the test that they took about ten gallons of blood out of me for the last time hadn’t worked. But
they couldn’t do it again this time because they can only do blood tests in the beginning of the week. She said they
charged me for it last time but that this second time would be free. And really, I think they just brought me up
there in person because they didn’t want to call and tell me to pay my bill, so they did it this way. Because there
was really nothing that I was there for. The whole place has gotten sort of crazy. But then while I was there
someone named “Saul Steinberg” called on the phone, so maybe it’s the really rich one and so Doc Cox does have
rich important clients. Then they told me that I hadn’t had any X-rays since 1978 but I said the nurse had done
them and then they did find them and I blamed Bubbles for losing them, but Doc Cox said that Bubbles never even
went near that drawer.
Monday, November 28, 1983
I’m looking out my window … there’s a lady with her dog running away from the poop he just did … she’s
leaving it … she’s gone, and she left it right in front of my housel And here comes a truck from the Happiness
Cleaners and Laundry….
Fred hired a kid to replace Robyn and didn’t even ask me. And I don’t think this kid can be any good because
he just sat there for five hours waiting for Fred to arrive instead of seeing what little things he could do, like sweep
up. He’s Italian with an English accent.
Tuesday, November 29, 1983
The New York Times had a big story on AIDS. The tourist business in Haiti is down to nothing. Probably the
tourists were only there secretly for the big cocks. Because Jean Michel is half Haitian and he really does have the
biggest one.
Went to the Trump Tower and laid out a stack of Interviews and watched people take them for free. A lady was
shaking when she asked me for an autograph, and she said, “God bless you” and I hope she’s right.
I heard that Peter Brant just bought Antiques magazine, I guess for Sandy to run. It’s a good idea, it’s a good
magazine.
Wednesday, November 30, 1983
Went to go to the thing at Tavern on the Green that was to announce Don King taking over the management of the
Jacksons.
And Don King started an hour-long speech, and he was outrageous, he was telling everybody that Dustin
Hoffman was there, and Muhammad Ali, and everybody was booing because everybody knew they weren’t really
there (laughs). And then he started talking about “a young man with a camera,” and then Benjamin was hitting me
and saying, “It’s you! It’s you!” And all the Jacksons had on dark glasses and wouldn’t take them off and wouldn’t
say anything. And Mrs. Jackson is beautiful.
Sunday, December 4, 1983
Steve Rubell called and said he was picking me up at 6:30 with Bianca and Ian Schrager to go to the Helmsley
Palace for the Philip Johnson retrospective exhibition with Jackie O. at the Municipal Art Society benefit in the
Villard House. Got into black tie.
Went over there and talked to David Whitney. The photographers wanted a picture of me and Bianca, but she
was being difficult. She was in a Calvin.
Then we went in Steve Rubell’s car to the Four Seasons. Shook hands with Jackie O., she never invited me to
her Christmas party again, so she’s a creep. And now I wouldn’t go if she did. I’d tell her to go mind her own
business. I mean, I’m the same age, so I can tell her off. Although I do feel like she’s older than me. But then, I
feel like everybody’s older than me.
Philip was sort of cute. He said that it wasn’t his exhibition, it was his execution. David Whitney was having
martinis and he said that as soon as Philip popped off he and I could get together. I laughed it off, but later he said
I had to kiss him on the lips. I really didn’t know he actually felt this way about me! I always thought he was
kidding. And Philip gave a speech and David laughed and clapped. He’s smart, David.
Bob Rauschenberg had me kiss him on the lips, too. And then later a pretty girl groupie kissed me on the lips.
So if I catch anything the Diary will know where it’s from. I left Bianca there without saying goodbye (cab $7).
Wednesday, December 7, 1983
I’m talking like Bianca: “Hellllloooo.” You call her and you get this whole low voice and Euromumble. She’s at
the Westbury.
And Fred’s new assistant’s name is Sandro Guggenheim. The one Fred hired without asking me. Well, his
name’s not really Guggenheim, but he’s Peggy Guggenheim’s grandson. Peggy didn’t leave him any money,
though.
Thursday, December 8, 1983
Went up to Fiorucci to sign Interviews because Interview had arranged it. And when I got there (cab $6) it was so
nutty because it was “Andy Warhol Look-alikes Day” and there were five guys at the store dressed in white wigs
and clear pink-framed glasses and it really looked funny. So I signed about 250 Interviews and sold them.
Sunday, December 11, 1983
It was a grey day. Went to go look at the trees out at Averil’s in Katonah, where her husband is an emergency-room
doctor and she just had twins. They’ve lent Fred a little shack on their property, so we were going out there to see
Fred’s newest architectural adventure.
Peter Wise rented a car and we picked up Fred and went out there (tolls and gas $10). And Averil’s husband’s
so handsome. They live in a big comfortable house with a live-in maid and it’s rich but sort of the shabby way.
And it’s this perfect family with Christmas trees and a dog and her husband who loves her, and it’s so amazing to
think how wild she was just a few years ago.
Tuesday, December 13, 1983
It was raining hard yesterday. Benjamin and I walked down Madison Avenue and saw all the stuff I want but it’s
the same old problem—you don’t know whether to get a lot of the cheaper little things or one big expensive thing.
And this year I notice that people are back to new things. Last year it was retro. If you had a thirties watch on last
year it was chic. But now it’s back to Corums and things. Pocket watches are out. Wristwatches are in, but they’re
sort of finishing. That’s the second collecting trend that I started, the wristwatch one. The first was Deco. This year
you can get pocket watches that were $12,000 last year for $4,000. And ones that were $85,000 you can get now
for $35,000.
We went to the office and I read the Rolling Stone where Jann Wenner puts down all his best friends. He put me
in with the most “Overrated People.” And you’d think since he owns my Maos that he’d be putting me up. I
wonder why not. Oh I know, maybe he sold them! And you know it was Joe Allen who sold the Silver Elvis! And
he sold all his furniture and everything, the new wife is really moving in there. Jed is doing their apartment.
Decided to go to Peter Beard’s party at Heartbreak. Peter was at the door showing slides. The usual. Africa.
Cheryl on a turkey. Barbara Allen on a turkey. Bloodstains. (laughs) You know.
Wednesday, December 14, 1983
Bruno came and drove us crazy. He didn’t bring Jean Michel’s rent payment, so later I called Jean Michel about
his rent being due and then I had a fight with Jay because he gave Jean Michel my home phone number. He said,
“Oh, I didn’t know you didn’t want…” I yelled at him, “Are your brains still with you?” I mean, he knew I
wouldn’t have Jean Michel coming up to my house—I mean he’s a drug addict so he’s not dependable. You can’t
have—I mean, so then why would I want him to have my home phone? Jay should have known better.
And Richard Weisman sent us tickets to the hockey game because Wayne Gretzky invited us.
And since I’d called Jean Michel about the rent I felt bad so I invited him to the hockey game and I sent Jay
home early so he could drop off the ticket to him.
And Robyn Geddes came by about getting his old job back, but Fred had to tell him he couldn’t have it. And
Fred called to remind me not to wear bluejeans to the hockey game because we were going to “21” afterwards.
So then I met the Shiatsu guy who Richard Weisman recommended and he worked on me for an hour and a
half and he was really good, a thorough professional. He told me that when I cross my legs I should cross them left
to right or right to left—I forget which—because one side is weaker than the other, but I told him I never cross my
legs (laughs). But I’m looking now and here I sit talking with them crossed … anyway, so I made a standing
appointment for every Wednesday at 7:30. His name is Eizo, and his philosophy is: “You are young you are young
you are young, therefore you are young.”
I lied about my age, I told him I was forty-four. And he said, “Oh that’s my age, too!” I guess he knew I was
lying. But I felt wonderful afterwards.
Thursday, December 15, 1983
Worked out with Lidija and I strained myself. Or maybe I have cancer of the groin, I don’t know. I decided to start
drinking water instead of coffee. The office was busy. Vincent paid bills.
Thomas Ammann showed a few paintings here at the house—Balthus, Picasso from 1923, and Utrecht. And
what should I do with these Christmas trees that Tommy Pashun sent? Five little ones. Last year all my trees died
after I spent loving care on them, spraying them with water and everything.
Friday, December 16, 1983
Stopped at different places where I’d been the week before where I’d asked them to hold some things, and none of
the places had held them. So I saved a lot of money. But on the other hand, I got really mad and hated them for not
holding something for a regular customer. So—fuck ‘em.
And Lorna Luft’s so mean, she’s having a baby because she knows Liza can’t. And I’m working on a picture
present for the Geros. Maybe one from the picture of Liza and Judy that ran in the Post last week.
Went out walking with Jon and we ran into Jann Wenner in the neighborhood—he saw me from a block away
and came over and then invited us in for a drink. I said, “Gee, Jann, you put down all your best friends in your
article on “Overrated People.” And he said, “Oh yeah, I made them take Gilda Radner off that list.” He didn’t say a
thing about me! And he’s got a big pot belly and his hair is long again.
Saturday, December 17, 1983
There was lunch with Bo Polk at “21.” I asked Jon if he wanted to go. Picked him up and we went to 52nd and
Fifth. Got out of the cab ($5) and happened to turn my head and saw this car running down about fifty people.
People were being thrown up in the air. It was like a movie scene. And when the car stopped there were people
lying all over the sidewalk and other people screaming and running. It made me really sick. Jon ran over to try to
help. Some people who weren’t hit were trying to help the others, but there were other people trying to get Cartier
packages away from people who’d been hit. Jon found this boy on the ground who didn’t have anybody with him,
he was from Yale, and he asked Jon to slip his Cartier package in his inside pocket so no one would steal it.
Ambulances got there in just a second, though. Lots of Empire ambulances. Where do they come from so fast, I
wonder. It was chaos. And I was standing next to George Plimpton and I asked him if he was going down to the
lunch, but he didn’t answer me, he was being grand. When Jon was done I thought he’d have blood all over him,
but he didn’t.
Then later on after seeing on the news about all these other disasters, the bomb at Harrod’s and the fire in
Madrid, it was great that not one person in this Fifth Avenue thing was badly injured. And what happened, it
turned out, was that a traffic cop told this guy in the passenger seat of some car in front of Doubleday to move, and
the guy couldn’t drive but I guess his foot just went onto the accelerator accidentally because they didn’t charge
him with anything.
So it was all really odd and I can still see it in my eyes. It could have been us, or anything.
At “21” the hat-check girl said, “I know who you are.” And I thought she was making a reference to my dirty
coat which the other day they hadn’t even wanted to check, they just threw it on the floor. But later on she asked
me for my autograph, so I guess that was why she said it.
After lunch walked up Madison still feeling peculiar because of the accident.
Sunday, December 18, 1983
Talked to Chris and Peter. They were decorating their tree and then they were going off to judge an underwear
contest at the Pyramid Club on Avenue A. Cabbed to Chris’s ($9). And Chris is so skinny that his eyeballs are
sticking out. He’s doing it for the same reason I was when I was down to 115—he thinks it makes him look young.
But he doesn’t look good thin. So when we get to Aspen I’ll have to get him on an ice cream binge.
Monday, December 19, 1983
Cabbed to meet Lidija ($5). And while I was exercising two big sharp pains went through me, as if somebody
stuck a sword through me angled down. I thought it was the end. Especially after seeing that accident on Saturday
and how it could just all be over in a second. But it went away. It must have been some odd muscle spasm. Lidija
was concerned. She does adjust things. Like we don’t do stomach exercises anymore because it was making the
bullethole in my stomach bigger. And we’re going to make the weights less. I did used to lift weights when I was
young. At Al Roon’s. Before it became the Continental Baths and hosted Bette Midler. When it was just a regular
gym. But I wasn’t lifting them right. I was just lifting.
Tuesday, December 20, 1983
Jean Michel came up to the office but he was out of it. Clemente brought up some of the paintings that the three of
us are working on together, and Jean Michel was so out of it he began painting away. Jean Michel and Clemente
paint each other out. There’s about fifteen paintings that we’re working on together.
It was so freezing outside that I decided to stay home. Talked on the phone to John Reinhold for two hours. Fell
asleep and then woke up. Then went and broke into Jon’s cinnamon nuts and had them. Drank some cognac. I was
sleeping with that kind of sleep where you’re sleeping but you think you’re awake. Then finally from 7:30 to 8:15
I did get some good sleep.
Was too lazy to put on the humidifier so I woke up with dry mouth and fingers.
Wednesday, December 21, 1983
Went to Fiorucci and it’s so much fun there. It’s everything I’ve always wanted, all plastic. And when they run out
of something I don’t think they get it again. It’s the cutest kids, too.
Worked till 7:30 then glued myself and went over to Mick’s party on West 81st, and it was fun. They had a
couple of security guys at the door. And it was the first time I saw his new house and I was disappointed because I
thought it would be on Riverside Drive, and when I think of all the great houses they were looking at I don’t know
why they bought this one. Jed restored it, but the house is just a regular house.
And just the usual people were there. Ahmet, and Camilla and Earl McGrath, and Jann Wenner and Peter Wolf
and Tom Cashin. I decided to sort of booze it up. They had good food. Maybe it was store-bought, but the best
store-bought. And Jerry is huge. It’s so funny to see these girls pregnant who were so slim. You can’t believe it’s
the same person. It’s like a truck. She had a tiara and a white wedding-type dress on.
Thursday, December 22, 1983
Benjamin picked me up and it was raining hard but it had turned warm. I was in a terrible awful Christmas mood.
Nobody was in town.
Paige called and she’d sent me a chocolate TV set she’d had custom-made by one of the advertisers to celebrate
our MSG-TV shows. She didn’t know that earlier in the day we had just gotten the letter saying in black and white
that the show was being cancelled.
Friday, December 23, 1983
Cabbed to Interview to the office party to try to feel Christmasy. Robyn Geddes was there and I could see he was
feeling funny. And it seemed like there wasn’t anybody big at the party. Robert Hayes was there and Cisco, his
boyfriend, who’s dying of AIDS, and I guess I got really freaked out and I couldn’t deal with it. The kids had all
gone to his house—he made Christmas dinner for Jay and Paige and they ate it. He’s made dinner for them before.
We used to go to his restaurant all the time.
Saturday, December 24, 1983
Halston’s place was really Christmasy. Victor was behaving himself. Bianca was there with Jade, and Peter Beard
and Cheryl Tiegs, and Jennifer and Jay from the office, and Halston’s niece. No Steve Rubell. Dinner was
delicious, cranberries and turkey, and I porked. Halston gave me an old dress, it weighed like 4,000 pounds. And
the presents weren’t really that great—it wasn’t like the other Christmas Eves there. Bianca made a faux pas, she
asked me if I was going to Diane Von Furstenberg’s and I hadn’t been invited. So I guess I’m off her list. She must
have chosen Bob over me. Well, then she missed a Christmas present. I don’t know, it was never that much fun
there anyway. Benjamin was trying to get me to leave so he could go off and have fun, so he got me out of there
by 12:00, and walked me home. I just lallied around feeling blue. Took a Valium and forgot about the world.
Sunday, December 25, 1983
Got up and it was Sunday. Tried to dye my eyebrows and my hair. I wasn’t in the mood. Went to church. Got not
too many phone calls. Actually none, I guess. Tried to wrap presents. I was going to have Peter and Chris over to
plan our trip to Aspen the next day. I guess I took all day wrapping presents and I think by the time they came I’d
watched a lot of terrible TV. Went through a lot of fuzzy paper.
Got a picture of Georgia O’Keeffe from Chris and a little painting from Peter and time really flew by. Nobody
ate anything.
Monday, January 2, 1984—Aspen, Colorado—New York
Got back to New York and got a Scull limo ($20 to the driver). The driver said he’d picked up Jean Michel and
drove him to the airport to go to Hawaii for two months. And I hope he paid his rent in advance. Got home and
was really tired. Watched TV, took a Valium.
Never took a bath the whole time in Aspen, never changed clothes. Just lived like a pig. That’s a good story,
isn’t it? But my perfume worked and my breathing was good but I was depressed because Jon is so aloof. He says
he needs to be his own person, and I always feel like he’s just about to leave, so I never can feel relaxed.
Wednesday, January 4, 1984
Vincent was upset because it was in the newspapers that I’m giving a party at Club A for Christopher on January
10, and now everybody is calling the office to get invited and driving him crazy. It’s not my party—I told the
person giving it that my name could only be used in a minor way, but the invitations arrived and they say, “Andy
Warhol invites you to …”
Peter called and said it was Chris’s birthday and was I going to take them out to celebrate. I couldn’t face it so I
started a fight about that to get out of having to do it.
Then I took Benjamin as my date to a party at Louise Melhado’s. Jennifer had come to work for five minutes
but it was just long enough to give us the wrong address. But we eventually found it. We were both dirty and in
our bluejeans and it was hard explaining why Benjamin was there. But it was an old crowd so the old boys wanted
to meet him. Decorators.
Dropped Benjamin (cab $20). I went home and watched Dynasty. Helmut Berger was good. Then went to bed
early. But then I remembered the caviar in the kitchen that Calvin had sent so I started down the stairs—I was in
my socks—and it was like a comedy, I slipped and fell three times. Just flopped down the stairs. And I got bruised.
Macy’s and Zabar’s were having a caviar war this Christmas but Calvin got his at William Poll so he probably paid
a lot for it.
Woke up in the middle of the night thinking of the exposé of my life that I hear Women’s Wear Daily is doing.
Oh, and David Whitney called and said yesterday that Leo Lerman had been fired from Vanity Fair and the girl
in England who does the Tatler was going to be editor. I don’t know, I think they should just make Vanity Fair like
what Vogue used to be and downgrade Vogue to the Mademoiselle level and go on down the line downgrading.
Saturday, January 7, 1984
Had to go to see the Keith Haring closing (cab $8). Went all the way down there to see what people are doing and I
got jealous. Bought Keith memorabilia and posters from the show ($95). This is at the Disco annex of the Tony
Shafrazi Gallery. Ran into people and it was weird. This Keith thing reminded me of the old days when I was up-
there.
And then we went to see Lichtenstein’s show, and he did a mural! I just don’t understand that. Right on the
wall. Like picking up the graffiti thing from the kids, but I think it’s so silly, why would he want to do that. But
somebody told me they’ll put sheetrock over it and it’ll be underneath and then someday they’ll peel it away. So
then we went to a duck exhibit, a new kind of old art, primitives like duck decoys.
And then we went to Peter Bonnier’s gallery and it was Steve Jaffee’s paintings, and there’s a portrait of Jean
Michel in it and Jean Michel told me that this guy just does it the way I do— tracing.
Sunday, January 8, 1984
Calvin called and wanted to know if it was worth going to Chris’s party at Club A on Tuesday. And I had a fight
with Chris because he’s saying that I can’t bring whoever I want. I mean, my name’s on the invitation as the host
and I can’t invite anybody I want? And then when I ask Chris who’s coming he tells me the names and it’s every
boy he’s ever had.
Monday, January 9, 1984
Fred walked in and the first thing he said was that I stole his Christmas scarf, which I did. Brigid must have told
him. She told him and she got him all agitated. She has nothing better to do so she just went and told him I stole
the scarf that was delivered for him while he was away. I think she’s sick in the head.
Tuesday, January 10, 1984
This was the day of Christopher’s grand party at Club A and so everyone was calling us to get in and Chris was
being so grand and saying no no no, that it was so exclusive. Calvin and Steve Rubell called a few times and
Calvin was asking (laughs) what he should wear.
I was waiting for Jerry Hall to come down to take her picture for a portrait, but she was a no-show, and she
didn’t call or anything, which was strange. She’s usually reliable, Jerry. I don’t know when the baby is due.
Wouldn’t it be awful for Mick if it was another girl? If she has a boy, they’ll get married in a minute, I’m sure.
Talked to Rupert and he gave me an idea—a Statue of Liberty portfolio.
Then had to leave and it was snowing by then. Finally got a cab ($4) and then when I got there, there was really
nobody there. This party was supposed to be “Uptown Meets Downtown,” but it was just dumb meets stupid.
Wednesday, January 11, 1984
Jerry Hall called and said, “Is this the day I’m supposed to come down?” and I just said yes.
Jean Michel called from Hawaii. He said it wasn’t so primitive out there, that the first guy he saw said, “Aren’t
you Jean Michel Basquiat, the New York City graffiti artist?” And he said he met these hippies out there and
mentioned my name and they said, “Oh you mean that death-warmed-over person on drugs?” And I mean, it’s him
they should be talking about.
Jerry came and she had Mick’s daughter by Marsha Hunt with her, but the girl didn’t talk, she just read a
newspaper while Jerry and I worked.
Jean Michel called again from Hawaii. I told him to cut off his ear. He probably will. Went home and met the
shiatsu guy for my weekly massage.
Sunday, January 15, 1984
I was a judge at the cheerleading tryouts for the New Jersey Generals, the team that Donald Trump bought. They
were having them in the basement part of Trump Tower. It was the final tryout, and I was supposed to be there at
12:00 but I took my time and went to church and finally moseyed over there around 2:00. This is because I still
hate the Trumps because they never bought the paintings I did of the Trump Tower. So I got there and they were
already up to the fiftieth girl and there were only twenty left to go. Another guy had been filling in for me and he
handed me his pad and I took over. I didn’t know how to score. The girls didn’t look special because there was no
spotlight on them. Once in a while a camera light would go off and flash on one and then she would look good, but
that was it. People like LeRoy Neiman were the other judges. He said he voted for anybody who could kick. Ivana
voted for any of the girls who looked like her.
And there were so many different kinds of bodies—some with big hips and small waists and some with boy-
type bodies, and some with really skinny legs so there were big spaces between their legs. And this cheerleading
would be just something they’d do “for fun,” they don’t get paid. So they’d better get themselves a football player
or they’ll walk away with nothing. And somebody told Ivana she’d better watch her husband because she could
lose him to these young girls, but then later somebody told me that he fooled around with all the girls anyway. And
seeing these young things and then a sophisticated “lady” like Ivana, you’d think that some day they could be like
that, too—if they marry right.
And they all had to dance to “Billie Jean” by Michael Jackson, so we all had to hear “Billie Jean” seventy
times during the tryouts, so it was sick.
Went to Beulah Land on 10th Street and Avenue A (cab $6) to see the photography show of the kids at the
office—Benjamin and Paige and Jennifer—and it was right near where I first lived when I came to New York, on
St. Mark’s Place and Avenue A. And I thought about how hard it was then, walking all that way home from the
subway on Astor Place with my drawings and then dragging them up seven flights of stairs. And when we got to
Beulah Land they said that I’d just missed everybody’s mother and father and relatives, and I was so glad I had.
Like Jennifer’s mother and father and Paige’s aunts and uncles. And Benjamin’s photos were like my ideas—
manhole covers that all looked the same but they were actually all different. And Benjamin is the only one who
sold anything—Jeffrey Deitch from Citicorp bought them. And Paige has so much energy, she did the Peter Beard
look—writing little things—and it’s almost there but how many things can you do with photographs? Stayed there
an hour then went to the party at Pyramid for it. And it was the same crowd there. And these two clubs are the only
places I’ve been to where the kids actually do dress the Fiorucci way—like wearing three dresses at once.
Thursday, January 19, 1984
After Benjamin picked me up we passed a candy/newspaper shop and the woman said she’d consider getting
Interview, and she gave us a box of candy-covered-chocolate-covered peanuts. And then we were passing the park
and the pigeons were just going crazy, they were so starving, so we threw them the box of it. Usually they won’t
eat candy, but they were so starving they did. Barbara Allen called from Barbados because she’d just been
interviewed about the exposé that Women’s Wear Daily is doing on me. She said she said “all the right things,” so I
can just imagine. Maybe they won’t run it. She’s still with the same guy, the Polish guy.
Friday, January 20, 1984
At 12:30 Mrs. Tisch was coming to be photographed for a portrait. At last someone I met from a party was getting
a portrait done (cab to meet Lidija $6). She came in all her jewelry. She has such a bad nose job though. When I
first saw her I didn’t know it was one, but it is. And you think, with all that money, why can’t they make it right?
Why can’t they fix what went wrong? She’s pencil-thin and she doesn’t like red lips because she says her jaw is
big, but she wasn’t much of a problem. Worked all afternoon.
Monday, January 23, 1984
Joan Quinn sent Vincent a clipping from the Los Angeles Times that said Ronnie Levin was arrested for stealing all
this video equipment. Actually, he’d charged it to credit cards, though—some kind of scam.
And Jean Michel is meeting all these women in Hawaii and he’s going to L.A. to paint Richard Pryor and then
going back to Hawaii. And Paige is going out there and I told her that she should make sure he’s really going to be
there when she gets there. I mean, she’ll make all these plans and she’ll get there and he’ll be gone.
Oh, and this kid came up who said he was Rupert Murdoch’s nephew, and Jay, after his mistake with Sidney
Poitier’s “son,” was saying this time, “He’s a fake, I know it.” But I think it was a real nephew because he left
quickly, he didn’t stay on and on.
Friday, January 27, 1984
We cabbed down to the Castelli Gallery to see the Jasper Johns show. When we got there Jasper was at the door
letting some people out and I told him we were crashing and he let us in. I wasn’t invited, I don’t think—I never
saw an invitation. Or to the lunch they had either. The paintings were wonderful, and every one was like $600,000.
I think Jasper owns most of them, just sells one when he has to. Then we left there and went to the South Street
Seaport to take pictures there, and that was strange, because right where Jasper and Bob Rauschenberg and Bob
Indiana used to live, now there’s this whole fake town with 100 million stores. Stopped at a Greek coffee shop
($24).
Saturday, January 28, 1984
Wandered to the East Village. Took a couple of rolls of film. Ran into René Ricard who’s the George Sanders of
the Lower East Side, the Rex Reed of the art world—he was with some Puerto Rican boyfriend with a name like a
cigarette. We went to the Fun Gallery, then went to the Lochran Gallery which used to be a furniture store and now
they’ve thrown paintings on the wall and it’s a gallery. And then we went to Mary Garage. What’s the name of that
gallery? Gracie Mansion. On Avenue A. And there were five fakes of mine there. Electric Chairs. And some
Jackson Pollock fakes. I didn’t say anything. Left there and saw a sign that said “Funeral Home,” and I thought it
was a discotheque and started to go in, but then they were actually bringing a body in and I freaked out and
crossed to the other side of the street.
Sunday, January 29, 1984
No one was available to accompany me to the office, and I was afraid the elevator would get stuck, so I didn’t go
down. Paige made it to Hawaii. Jean Michel did make it back from Los Angeles to meet her there, I guess, and
they were going off to some ranch.
Tuesday, January 31, 1984
Dr. Karen Burke arrived, she thinks she knows what’s making Brigid scratch, she thinks it’s the cats. So she waited
until Brigid went home at 5:00 and went with her. And I said to Brigid what if it turned out the cats had something
and she said, “Oh, I’ll just get rid of them, then.” I don’t know, she has no feelings.
Saturday, February 4, 1984
Did a personal errand with Jon, but he made me promise not to put anything personal about him in the Diary. [Jon
Gould was admitted to New York Hospital with pneumonia on February 4, 1984, and released on February 22. He
was readmitted the next day, however, and released again on March 7. On that day Andy instructed his
housekeepers Nena and Aurora: “From now on, wash Jon’s dishes and clothes separate from mine.”]
Monday, February 6, 1984
Was picked up by Benjamin and it was a beautiful day. This was the first of me taking photographs for my
assignment from French Vogue. I’m being paid $250 a day.
Got to our new building, 33rd and Madison (cab $4.50), and André Leon Talley was styling the shoots and had
told the Guardian Angels to meet us there and the only room that looked sort of like a subway to photograph them
in was the basement.
They were all nice kids. The leader, Curtis, and his wife were there and they’re good-looking. And I guess
they’re still in trouble because they’re accused of staging an incident and I wouldn’t be surprised if they did
because they are theatrical. I mean everything about them is so beautiful.
I went home and watched TV. Barbara Walters is just too goo-goo with that searching look and asking the same
old questions: “How old were you when you realized you had sex?”
Tuesday, February 7, 1984
It was so exciting being at the new building with George the super and going to the rooms that don’t have
furniture, like the big ballroom. The kitchen’s being put in and it looks so pretty. Stayed there about an hour.
Jean Michel called from Hawaii and talked a long time. Paige is back here now and she’s in seventh heaven,
overfucked, I guess. And now he’s flying this other girl out there. Paige was stupid and paid her own way—she
insisted because that’s the way she is—and now he’s paying for this other girl. He’s paying $1,000 a week for this
house. He owes us three months’ rent and he’s trying to get Bruno to pay.
Talked to Paul Morrissey a few times and we’re sort of becoming friendly again, he was sort of normal.
Then cabbed uptown to change into a tuxedo and invited Benjamin to the Michael Jackson party (cab $7).
Glued myself together and then cabbed to Halston’s ($3) because he’d invited me to go in his limousine.
So we took the limo to the Museum of Natural History and we got there right as Michael Jackson was getting
an award in the center hallway. And he talked and talked, it was a new personality.
The crowds of kids were kept on the opposite side of the street when we came in, that’s how it was set up. And
there was nobody really there. Just everybody you already knew, but nobody. Just all the record-business people
but in black tie. Oh, and Bob Colacello was there and we finally made up. Because I was drunk. I’d had one drink
at Halston’s, and I told Bob how great his Larry Flynt article in Vanity Fair was and he was thrilled I liked it.
Oh and the best person at the party who I just love is Truman’s niece who now works for Interview as the
stylist, Kate Harrington, isn’t that the greatest name? Kate Harrington. She’s very pretty. Like what Holly
Golightly should have looked like. And I just loved her because whatever man she wanted she just went right after
them, she’d give them her card. And she’s good—she styled the Goldie Hawn cover.
Monday, February 13, 1984
Got up in the morning knowing that I had another day of French Vogue ahead of me. Had to go downtown early to
meet André Leon Talley. I was photographing Benjamin in his drag outfit. It was warm out, like fifty degrees.
Got there (cab $5) and Benjamin looked great, very fashionable, and I can really see why he gets so much drag
work. Oh, and we got Lidija in the pictures, too, so it’s all nobodies and the French will think they’re somebodies.
Which is a new thing because the somebodies are everywhere, you’re sick of them.
Wednesday, February 15, 1984
Maura came by and said that she takes home $1,300 a week at her new job writing for The New Show at NBC, and
that she’s saving her money because she thinks that The New Show is going to fold fast. Her brother was with her
and he’s a sculptor who does things with ping-pong balls for eyes, so you can imagine. He went to Harvard. He
doesn’t use the name Moynihan.
Friday, February 17, 1984
The W exposé on me came out. Fred said it wasn’t so bad, though. All the old ladies will be after me, it made me
seem so rich. And I read GQ and Calvin with these new ads, the perfume, the girl in the jockstrap with—oh, he’s
going to be in the billions.
And Brigid, she was knitting. Just Madame Defarge. And if you ever want to know what’s wrong with you,
don’t look in a mirror, just give Brigid a glass of wine and she’ll tell you: ‘Your wig’s on crooked.”
Thursday, February 23, 1984
I was picked up by Benjamin and we went out with Interviews, but I really don’t like passing out this Jane Fonda
issue because I just don’t like the cover, it doesn’t look like her and there’s no black in it. The one that’s coming
next with Goldie Hawn looks good, though.
Oh, and I ran into Bob Colacello. And he asked me for an Interview. I asked if his building had gone co-op and
he said no, that it went condo.
Well Jean Michel is coming back from Hawaii on the first and going to Sweden on the second. Just for a few
days. Our old friend from Stockholm, Stellan, says he has Swedish girls lined up waiting for him over there.
Saturday, February 15, 1984
Bianca told me she’d just been in Japan doing an interview with Robert Wilson for Vanity Fair and I said how
could she do that and not for Interview, and she said well would Interview have sent her for three weeks to Japan
and paid her hotel bill. That must have been expensive. She said, “He’s a genius.” I did used to think he was good,
too, but then that last time at Lincoln Center it was so boring. It’s like artists who do things—well I don’t know,
maybe I fit into that category—but they’re showing the mechanicals of something instead of entertaining you.
Rauschenberg’s good, though. He’ll put on his ice skates in a new way.
Monday, February 27, 1984
I was looking at the Christie’s stuff, the jewelry. In every auction they have some stuff of Gloria Vanderbilt’s. I
guess she gave them lots of stuff and it’s just little junk. I guess they like to have a name in every auction and
anyway, if they’d put it all together in one auction it would have just been embarrassing.
And John Reinhold called and said he got another letter from the government about permission to drill holes in
pennies. They’d told him on the phone it was okay, but he said, “I want it in writing.” So the government sent him
this abstract letter saying you could drill holes in them but you couldn’t deface them. This is so I can make more
of the penny belts like the one I made for Cornelia.
Was picked up by John and Kimiko and went to the Met and the opera was Tannhàuser by Wagner. Boring.
There are no great singers. I guess all the strong singers go into rock and roll now. The opera audience is still filled
with boys with older men, learning about the finer things in life.
I was looking at some magazine and there was an interview with Joe Dallesandro, done right before he did The
Cotton Club—the Lucky Luciano role that PH actually got him because she knew the producer—and there was
Joe saying, “Oh, I never hung around with those Factory people, they weren’t my friends.”
Wednesday, February 29, 1984
Time sent down the picture of Michael Jackson and I was set to do the cover, but then stupid Hart upset Mondale
in the New Hampshire primary, so they dropped the Michael cover. They said maybe they’d do it another week,
but I doubt it. Maybe that was just a way of getting out of my price. Oh, but they are a news magazine, I guess.
Then Liza had invited me to come over to her theater and see the changes they’d made in The Rink and then
watch the performance of this eight- or nine-year-old girl who’d been hanging around the stage door for weeks
with her father trying to get Liza to watch her perform.
So cabbed with Benjamin ($5). And this little girl, after weeks of pleading, was late. And that made it sort of
weird, because everybody thought she’d be right there. Then she came and she had a perfect little Barbie doll
figure and long hair and this beautiful face. It was the Debra Winger look. She was Jewish. And she put on the
Liza music to “New York, New York” and she sang that and we sort of sat there. Her father was in the background.
The director was really sweet. And then after she did that, Liza talked to them and said, after saying how good she
was and everything, “What do you want from me?” And the little girl was cute and nervous and everything, and
she said, “I want to be Liza Minnelli.” And “I want to further my career.” Things like that. And Liza asked her
what she’d done, and she said that she’d done a TV commercial. Then Liza started giving her pointers and I got
goosebumps. It was memorable. One of those real scenes, it was show business but real. And it was like All About
Eve or something.
Then we left there and Liza’s new bodyguard is the Hell’s Angel I met once at the Café Central. He has a hook
hand.
Thursday, March 1, 1984
Jay called in the morning and said the Michael Jackson Time cover was back on.
Friday, March 2, 1984
Mick and Jerry had their baby. A girl. A girl named Elizabeth Scarlett.
And you know, it’s so funny with all these protests now about Jane Fonda at the stores where she’s trying to
sell her exercise clothes. I don’t understand why it would start now. I mean, all these years her movies have been
doing big business and her exercise video is number one— Vietnam veterans complained but nobody listened. But
now with the clothes it’s all these protests and they’re effective because Saks cancelled. But why haven’t they been
calling theaters all these years and saying, “We’ll bomb the theater if you show her movie"? So it makes me think
it’s like one person in the garment business that’s gone after her. You know? Because it’s all of a sudden and just
focused on this one area. And I mean, what category do we fall into, having her on the Interview cover? Will that
be an area that’s just fine, like her videotapes where she’s the “most respected woman in America"? Or will they
be writing us threatening letters?
Monday, March 5, 1984
I read the book about Mrs. Chairman Mao called White Boned Demon and I decided to do paintings of her. It was
great, about how she went from prostitute to Chairman Mao’s wife. But I mean, how this guy wrote this stuff I
don’t know. I mean, going back to individual days in her childhood and remembering if she was happy or sad, I
mean, they don’t even know what happened to her mother, let alone if she was unhappy on Tuesday in May 1937!
The Mrs. Mao book didn’t have any pictures in it so now I have to find some.
Tuesday, March 6, 1984
Worked on the Michael Jackson Time cover until 8:00. Then watched some terrible TV. I saw Joan Collins in some
old movie like Caesar and she was so bad, and now she’s got the right part and she’s so good. It was all just
finding the right part.
Wednesday, March 7, 1984
Ran into the lady whose portrait I just did, Mrs. Tisch, and I was wondering why she looked so familiar. She said
she loves the portraits but doesn’t know how many she’s going to take. Fred’s going to call her.
I finished the Michael Jackson cover. I didn’t like it but the office kids did. Then the Time people came down to
see it, about forty of them. And they stood around saying that it should increase newsstand sales “by 400,” so I
guess they do think about this. Then later the Time guy called me—Rudy—and said they were going to use it. I
think the yellow one. And I told him to cross his fingers that it wouldn’t get bumped on Saturday and he said he
would.
Friday, March 9, 1984
Ran into Adolfo. Benjamin said it was him, but I didn’t recognize him. And Adolfo said that he sees me in church
every Sunday, that he sits right next to me, so I was embarrassed that I’ve never recognized him.
Vic Ramos called and said he wanted to talk about something, so he’s bringing Matt Dillon over for lunch on
Tuesday. So that’s something to look forward to, that’ll be fun, seeing Matt again. I’m sure he wants us to produce
a movie, that’s got to be it. Because it wouldn’t be (laughs)to direct. That would be too easy, too good to be true.
He asked if Paul was around and I said yes, he’s around, and he said that we’d just have this meeting this way and
then we could talk to Paul later about this project.
Sunday, March 11, 1984
I went to church and did see Adolfo next to me, just like he’d told me.
Monday, March 12, 1984
Time came out and the Jackson cover made it, it didn’t get bumped. And the article inside was crazy. It had them
asking if he was going to get a sex-change operation and he said no. The cover should have had more blue. I gave
them some in the style of the Fonda cover I did for Time once, but they wanted this style.
Jean Michel came by, he’s back from Hawaii, and he brought a rent check which was a good surprise. Vincent
came down. Everybody was trying to get tickets to the Hard Rock Café, that place that Dan Aykroyd has
something to do with. Rock Brynner is running it. Eddie Murphy was supposed to be there.
And I didn’t tell the Diary that Michael Sklar died, did I? When I stopped in at Jean’s to look at a brooch this
guy there who follows my career showed me the obituary. About two days ago he died. It said he starred in Andy
Warhol’s Trash and L’Amour. It said he died of lymphoma. So is that AIDS? But gee, Michael didn’t carry on. He
was a hard worker.
Tuesday, March 13, 1984
Matt Dillon and Vic Ramos were coming to lunch. Jean Michel came by—he wanted to meet Matt because Matt
had mentioned Jean Michel’s art in the interview he did with us.
Matt arrived first. And then Vic came and he didn’t like the idea of Jean Michel because in the seventies—I
remember reading this in the papers—his apartment had been broken into and vandalized by a graffiti artist. Vic
said he still hasn’t gotten the paint off everything yet.
And after two hours we still didn’t know why Vic had wanted to set up this lunch. Then finally Matt started to
say something about wanting to do a movie about a sixties underground filmmaker.
Matt was wearing pink shoes that he said he got on St. Mark’s Place. And he was talking about Midnight
Cowboy and imitating the fag in it, putting on sort of an affected accent, like British or a little like Fred when he’s
Mrs. Vreeland. And Matt has the ear to be a very good actor. Vic Ramos was the casting person for Midnight
Cowboy who put Paul and Jed and Ultra and everybody in the party scene. I wasn’t in it because I was in the
hospital, it was in the summer of ‘68 right after I got shot.
When I left work it was snowing and raining out. The dog had peed on my bed and I beat him up. Amos.
Wednesday, March 14, 1984
Ron Feldman came up to talk about the new project, the portfolio of old magazine ads. But he wants me to do
corny ones—like the Judy Garland Blackglama ads. He doesn’t want the Coke one, he says who would buy it.
Thursday, March 15, 1984
I was violently ill. I had carrot juice and some beans at lunch and by the time I got home yesterday I felt funny.
And then there was a dinner at Shezan for Egon Von Furstenberg and Mrs. Egon, and so I had to decide whether I
felt well enough to go,and I went—an hour late—and I was seated next to Mrs. Egon, but the second I smelled the
food I started to get violently ill and had to leave. But I kept it down. And then I got home and the dogs sat on top
of me all night, so I hoped they would pick it up and take it away from me. It was so weird to get sick like that.
Vincent had caught the flu from his kids so I think I picked up this thing from him.
Friday, March 16, 1984
A sick day. I woke up, still sick, and decided to stay at home. The phone rang a lot. People kept checking in.
Saturday, March 17, 1984
Dolly Parton was coming to the office to be interviewed. She arrived and she was great. She had two people with
her. She said she has a place in New York and goes out and around, but I don’t know how she can unless she puts
another kind of wig on. She talked nonstop for four hours. She’s a walking monologue.
Jean Michel came by and he misunderstood something she said about “plantations” so he didn’t like her but
then I got him to come back in and she charmed him. She repeated herself a lot, called herself “trash” a lot. She
said most of her groupies were lesbians and fags. She has a group of dykes that follows her around. She had her
hairdresser and her girlfriend Shirley pick her up. They just came in a cab, not a limousine. I worked late.
Sunday, March 18, 1984
The phone didn’t ring once. Oh wait, yes it did. Jane Holzer called and she’s flying us to Palm Beach on Friday to
help open her ice cream shop, “Sweet Baby Jane’s.” She called People magazine about it, so I guess they’ll do a
“Whatever happened to Baby Jane” about her.
Monday, March 19, 1984
Paloma called and we were invited that night to her dinner for her perfume. They didn’t send perfume to men, but
the bottle is kind of nice. She was having the dinner at the old Burden mansion on 91st Street that’s now a Catholic
school and they rent out the old ballroom for parties.
Dropped Benjamin. Glued and then was late. Cabbed uptown ($3.50). And because I was late I’d been bumped
from the main table. So I wound up at the same table as Rosemary Kent! She’s back around and working for the
Post! I’ve been forgetting to tell the Diary. And Fred was at this table, too, so he was going nuts trying to look
away from her. She’s still with the same husband, Henry. And instead of running up to Paloma I ran up to horrible
Rosemary Kent, who’s still writing her stupid “What’s In/What’s Out” articles, you know—“Handbags! Shoes!
Andy Warhol’s wigs!”—and tried in my heart not to think she was awful, because God forgives so so should I.
See, I’m sure I got sick the other day as punishment because I yelled at that lady. Didn’t I tell the Diary? A real
estate lady called the office and said she wanted to show our floor to some people and I screamed that she
couldn’t, that our lease wasn’t up and that she better not set one foot on the premises until it was, and she said she
couldn’t believe that a nice person and an artist like me would be yelling at her. And then I got sick.
Paloma’s party just missed. The people were too old or something. I’ve decided I’m just going to go to
openings of stores and galleries, that’s my new philosophy.
And the big news of the day was that Rupert’s house in New Hope, Pennsylvania, burned down, so he didn’t
come in. A coal got caught in the chimney. I never had a priest exorcise my room that had the spontaneous fire. I
blessed it myself—I got holy water. But I still think there’s something funny about that room. I had the Picabia
painting of the devil that fell down in there and also the ceiling fell down.
Tuesday, March 20, 1984
Went home and glued and then walked over to Jill Fuller’s house, she was having a dinner for Henry Mcllhenny
who just sold a $3.9 million Cezanne. The auction house probably did a deal and settled for 2 percent or 1 percent
or 5 percent or maybe even no percent just for the prestige of getting the painting. And it was an old evening, just
old people, nobody young. Jill’s ex-husband Gino Piserchio, one of our sixties superstars, was in the kitchen
cooking. He’s a caterer now. A chef. And Henry’s got three stomachs now.
Friday, March 23, 1984—New York—Palm Beach, Florida
It rained all day, but by 6:00 when Jane Holzer picked us up it had stopped for a little bit. So we went over to the
street where Sweet Baby Jane’s ice cream parlor was, in the block Jane owns, I think—the one that has Van Cleef
& Arpel.
I did interviews with the newspapers and People. Jane didn’t even give me a full dish of ice cream, just a little
spoon. The place has the usual stuff you sell with ice cream. Oreos and things. Boring.
Monday, March 26, 1984—New York
New York Central sent the wrong paint over three times. And then Jay had a dislocated shoulder. He dislocated it
playing basketball when somebody fell on him and his bone was sticking the wrong way and he’d spent the
weekend at St. Vincent’s and he’d just gotten out. And he was supposed to take a vacation starting at the end of
this week, so I told him to take it starting immediately, but he refused. He doesn’t want to waste vacation time
being disabled, he wants to work disabled. So now we’ve got to be moving some things up to the new building and
he won’t even be able to help.
Tuesday, March 27, 1984
Benjamin didn’t pick me up because he went directly to the office to help with moving. Jean Michel came by and
Paige came in at the same time and they had a fight. And Paige has now been kicked out of the apartment she was
staying in on West 81st Street, the board of the building wanted her out probably because they’d see dreadlocked
blacks coming in there all the time and they were scared, they wouldn’t know they were artists. Paige is so
charming, though, I’m surprised she couldn’t change their mind.
Somebody from the New York Post called, asking what was chic and what was un-chic. I guess they wanted
someone else to write their article for them.
Wednesday, March 28, 1984
I’d forgotten that David Whitney was coming down with Jasper Johns to get a painting for Jasper’s benefit, he’s
got a Jasper Johns Foundation for needy artists. I don’t know who picks who’s needy. Probably some idiot like
Barbara Rose, right? Or Robert Hughes. Oh, I bet that’s who it is. I just bet. I’m going to ask David. So they came
and they wanted the biggest one. The Ink Spot painting. The Rorschach Blot. Jasper liked it.
Thursday, March 29, 1984
It was raining and snowing out and this was the day we had to film all day doing the Cars video for their song
“Hello Again” at the Be-Bop Cafe on 8th Street. Benjamin came in drag to pick me up for the shooting. He was
going to be in it, too.
I had to be a bartender and wear a tux. The crowd of extras looked like the old Factory days—Benjamin in
drag, and a bald-headed mime in a Pierrot outfit, and John Sex with his snake. And then there was Dianne Brill
with her big tits and hourglass figure. The Cars were cute.
They finally got to my part at 8.00 and I had to sing a song but I couldn’t remember the words. And I had to
mix a drink while I was doing it, and with my contacts on I couldn’t see the Coke button on the soda dispenser.
And that meant being face to face with the Cars for a while, and it was hard to talk to them, I didn’t know what
to say. I finished at 9:15. One of the kids gave me a ride home.
Sunday, April 1, 1984
It was such a beautiful day. The whole town came out of the woodwork. Walked toward the park and a woman
lunged at me and said, “I’m Mary Rosenberg, you gave me my best advice, you told me, ‘Hang in there,’ “ but I
didn’t know who she was. I just closed my eyes and headed through the park with people pointing at me all the
way—“That’s that famous artist.”
So then at the other end of the park I met Jon and we walked. And I had with me all the corn flakes that were
stale to give to the birds, but I found a spot without birds, so I guess I actually fed the rats.
Bought New York ($1.50). Looked at the movies, decided to see The Ten Commandments (cab $4, tickets $10,
popcorn $10). And let me go on record: Cecil B. DeMille is the worst director ever. We’d missed an hour but it
was still three hours to go and a half-hour intermission. And all those actors were terrible. I mean, Edward G.
Robinson, forget it. And forget Yvonne DeCarlo and Ann Baxter, too. Charlton Heston was okay, he was good-
looking. The orgy scene was (laughs) people dropping grapes on each other—it sounds like an old Andy Warhol
movie, right? And then they would lift their skirt two inches off the floor. That was it. That was the orgy. Edward
G. Robinson—you couldn’t believe it. And Dustin Hoffman is going to wind up in his shoes, I just know it.
The movie finished. Benjamin had called in the afternoon and said that Victor was coming in from L.A. for a
birthday party for him at Halston’s. And that made me nervous, after hearing about Marvin Gaye’s father shooting
him. I could just picture Victor going nuts and jumping out a window or something dramatic. And by the way, last
week when I was trying to clean up, I picked up a box and out fell the picture of Marvin and me that PH took in
like 1976.
Went home, glued, then I went over to Halston’s. Wait a minute, somebody’s ringing my doorbell … it’s those
stupid Polacks again. They’re still coming over and ringing my bell! So okay, at Halston’s, at midnight, Victor
arrived. I gave him a framed Keith Haring T-shirt and he hated it and threw it away, but then he said he wanted it
back for the frame. He’s staying at the Barbizon, I think.
And then Alana Stewart arrived and Bianca and Alana wrestled on the floor for fun and I would have gotten the
best pictures but I’d forgotten my camera. Alana’s in town for the opening of Where the Boys Are.
Monday, April 2, 1984
That Girl Mario Thomas called me up and was like a bulldozer—“We want you to do Gloria Steinem’s portrait
and we want it right away.” So I had her talk to Fred and I guess it’s arranged. It’s a benefit for battered wives or
battered mothers. So I think it’s going to be auctioned off and we split the money.
Tuesday, April 3, 1984
Got the new French Vogue with my stuff in it and the Polaroids looked okay. Ming Vauze had a full page. These
magazines are like books now, they’re so thick, so expensive. Then cabbed downtown with Ming himself to meet
Lidija ($6). Worked out a few minutes, but I was an hour late for a portrait.
Did I tell the Diary Brigid gave Freddy the cat to Rupert, and so Freddy was caught in the fire when Rupert’s
house burned down in Pennsylvania, but he hid in the stove so he was safe.
Thursday, April 5, 1984
Fred got me so mad in the morning being so grand when I asked him what was happening with the Michael
Jackson portraits. He was giving me these very calm, low-key stock answers, repeating them to me, like “I’ve got
a grip on it,” and “It’s under control,” and things like that, and I told him, “Oh don’t give me that.” So then when
he started asking me questions, I decided to just give him his own medicine, and that’s what I started telling him,
“It’s in my control….”
And Gael Love said that Doria and Ron have gotten an apartment in L.A. and that Ron’s going to be getting
$6,000 for articles he writes, so they wouldn’t be doing anything more for us.
Maura came by and made 14,000 calls to L.A., The New Show folded and she’s going out there and wants to
get to Barry Diller’s party. And she was saying, “If you have any stocks sell them all, because with this national
deficit, I mean …” And she just says what her father tells her. So I guess Senator Moynihan wants everybody to
panic.
The press had called a while ago and asked what did I think about Campbell’s soup having new plastic cans,
the crushable kind, and I said, “Oh yeah, sure, great idea, great, great!” So now I just got the cutest letter from a
person at Campbell’s soup saying, “I’m so glad that you agree with us that we needed a new look.” I should have
said, “And I’m going to get a new wig.”
Saturday, April 7, 1984
Benjamin and his roommate Rags heard that there was a birthday party for Julian Lennon at the Be-Bop Cafe so
we decided to crash that. Got a limo that was $3 per person ($20). Got there and pretended we thought it was open
for regular business. And somebody tried to introduce me to Julian Lennon but he just looked at me and didn’t
have much reaction, and so we left, and then on the street we ran into a kid who asked us if we were going to Area
and we said yes and took him with us. And at Area I held up the walls for a few hours.
Tuesday, April 10, 1984
Benjamin picked me up and we went over to Sotheby’s. And there was only one thing I wanted. Anything with any
style will end up at Fred Leighton’s. There was a Verdura pin of a big black Negro’s face with cabochon ruby eyes
and lots of stones.
Jean Michel called me twice this morning from L.A. and wouldn’t speak when I answered because he didn’t
think it was me. Then on the third time he did and he told me that he’d been at the Roxy, Lou Adler’s place, “with
Jack and Shirley and Debra and Warren and Richard Pryor and Timothy Hutton.” Just about thirty people. And
then there were parties at Morton’s and Spago, and he got home at 5:00, so he felt like a movie star.
Dr. Karen came to the office and she decided to set up an office at the office, so that was fun.
I made an appointment to see a nutritionist. Dr. Linda Li on the West Side.
Gael Love called a few times. Robert Hayes has been out with a cold for three weeks, and somebody put a bug
in my head, like “What’s wrong with Robert?” But Gael said, “No, no, it’s nothing like that.”
Went to pick up John Reinhold to take him to Yoko’s black-tie birthday dinner for Vasarely’s (cab $4). So we
went to the Dakota and had to leave our shoes in the hallway. She had lots of pretty boys as waiters. I couldn’t tell
which one was Sam Havadtoy. Her live-in love. He’s a decorator. And it was very chic. We ate in the kitchen, it
was fresh vegetables and pasta and maybe something like veal. I couldn’t recognize anybody but everybody was
somebody. John Cage was there and Merce Cunningham.
And little Sean Lennon fell in love with me, just madly. He said, “Why is your hair like that?” I said, “Punk.”
He said, “What’s your name?” I said, “Adam.” Then I asked him to get me a double champagne and when he came
back with it he said somebody had told him I was Andy Warhol, and then he went around to everyone telling them,
“Do you know who that is? That’s Andy Warhol.” And I did my old trick, I tore a dollar bill in half for him. And
he said, “You have to give me an autograph,” and so I signed, “To Sean, Andy.” And he said, “I’m not interested in
your first name, I want your last one.” And I told him that I wasn’t so famous at all, that the other people were
there really famous, like John Cage, and that he should get his autograph. So he did, and John signed the most
beautiful signature. And then Sean had him sign a “J” and then he came over and ripped the “J” in half and gave
me half. But John had done it on the back of the really beautiful signature so that was ruined—Sean could have
had a beautiful John Cage autograph.
Oh, and when I was cleaning at home just the other week, out of a drawer fell pictures of John and Yoko that
I’d taken in the sixties or early seventies, and two of the photographs were double exposures of their faces, and it
killed me to give one of those up, but I did. The one where you could tell them apart I gave to her, and the one
where the features were all together I kept. When could I have taken those photos? Let’s see… I was going around
town with John and Yoko when I was looking to buy a building downtown, so it was before I got the Bowery
place, which was around ‘69, and there were three buildings on Greene Street, each for $200,000, that were all
being sold together and Yoko was going to buy one and John was going to buy one and I was going to buy one.
But then Yoko got greedy and wanted all three. And then they wound up not buying any of them. But by then I’d
been pushed out of the picture. And that building would be worth millions today. I think that was the year she had
that show in upstate New York where she flew everybody up there on one of those creaky airlines, like One-Way
Air or something. She spent $25,000 to fly everybody up there but then she didn’t have any other freebie for them
—no food or anything. Just up there. And there was an “in” party and an “out” party, that kind of stuff. What year
was that in? I can’t remember if it was before I was shot or after. It could have been ‘67 or ‘68 or ‘69 or ‘71. I just
don’t know. What makes me think it was before I got shot was that it was just me who went up there and I think if
it was after I was shot then Jed would have come, too.
Dinner was served and I sat next to Walter Cronkite and Sean, and I told Sean that if he wanted to be a host he
should get us food. And I had him take pictures for me of all the shoes lined up in the hallway. And Sean had the
flu and the girl next to Walter Cronkite had the flu and so I was being coughed on, so I just know I’ll get it.
I talked to Walter Cronkite and that was interesting. I told him I’d just read the Jody Powell thing in Rolling
Stone. He said he thought Carter was the most intelligent president. And he said that years ago when he went to
interview Nixon one of those times he was running for president, they sat him outside the door and he heard Nixon
on the phone saying “piss” and “cocksucker” and “fuck,” and Walter Cronkite thought it was a setup to have him
hear all this so he would think Nixon was really macho, but then years later when the Watergate tapes came out he
was surprised to hear Nixon talking like that all the time.
And then I heard Sean talking to this guy and asking what his name was and he said, “Coppola,” so then I told
him how much I loved The Outsiders and Rumble Fish. And we talked about how he had so many great kids in
those two movies, that it was like American Graffiti—all the kids would become the next generation of big stars.
And I didn’t know Coppola was from New York. He said he went to Hofstra and I said that we’d done a lecture
there once with Viva. And he said that his little girls miss me, I met them in Colorado skiing. He was with his wife
who didn’t say anything. And then Sean saw that I had bluejeans on and he started saying, “You’re the only real
person here, you’re so cool, you’re so cool.” He’s so cute.
And one of the waiters was somebody I’d discovered for Interview and he’d had a whole page as a bright
young new star, he was in Jack Hofsiss’s play, and he went to L.A. for a year and now he’s back and being a waiter
—it was really sad. I forget his name, although he told me again last night. From Georgia. Something like Bruce,
maybe. I dropped John Reinhold (cab $6). Got home at 12:30. Decided to read the Daily News and got to bed at
2:00.
And Yoko looks really good.
Wednesday, April 11, 1984
I think Jean Michel called a couple of times before 8:00 but hung up. Then at 8:00 he called and we talked. He
said he was coming to the office that afternoon but he never made it. I had a 10:30 appointment with Dr. Linda Li,
who was recommended to me by Timothy Dunn, a model who came by, and by Joey the hairdresser (cab $4.50).
She’s a pretty Chinese lady, and she told me to hold out my arm and push and then she’d knock it away like karate,
and she said I was fine, but I don’t know what that meant. The Patty Cisneros lady, Bob’s friend who’s so grand,
was waiting there and she looked fat. Then cabbed over to 720 Park Avenue to Emily Landau’s lunch($5).
Thomas Ammann was there and Fred arrived drunk, talking like Mrs. Vreeland and being grand, but he did talk
about interesting things. Furniture and everything. She had beautiful black guys serving. She’s the one who owned
the apartment at Imperial House that Liza bought. I did her portrait but it never really looked good, and the reason
I wanted to do it again was because she has all these great paintings like Rauschenbergs and Picassos and I didn’t
want to have mine looking bad there.
Thursday, April 12, 1984
Jean Michel came by. He’d been out all night. Got him to work on one of our joint paintings. He wanted spaghetti
so we got some from La Colonna ($71.45). He fell asleep and then he got up and he was up front by the phones
with a big hard-on, like a baseball bat in his pants. I guess that’s being young, I forget about those things.
Gael’s been doing double work since Robert Hayes has been out. And the kids say that they think it’s mental
with him more than anything, but that when they go over to see him he is actually coughing. And three weeks is a
long time to have a cold, isn’t it?
Friday, April 13, 1984
We photographed the street people in front of the Public Library and it was fun. One man with chains, and I gave
him change ($2) and then people were interviewing me. And I’m going to do that more. I didn’t get photo releases,
but I think I’ll start carrying some with me every day. Worked till 7:00. Then had to meet Jon, dinner at Woods
($80). Then ran up to see Friday the 13th on 86th Street (cab $3) and it was the most peculiar mix of a crowd—
rich preppie kids and black kids and the whole theater was a constant screaming riot, everybody jumping up and
down. It was the weirdest experience ever. And the murders were so gruesome. I want to do a movie called Stalk
the City where there’s a murder a minute. This movie opened in 1,500 theaters. It’s (laughs) a Paramount picture.
Sunday, April 15,1984
It was a miserable day, rain pouring down. The dogs were running around so that wasn’t too peaceful. I stayed
home and did research, looking at the Weegee pictures. He’s so great. People sleeping and fires and murders and
sex and violence. I want to do these kinds of pictures so much. I wish I could ride around with the police. But I
figure I can just do setups—use plants in my pictures: I want to throw Benjamin in front of cars.
Monday, April 16, 1984
Jean Michel was at the office, he brought his lunch and he was on the floor painting and not talking much. I think
he stays up all night and so that was his bedtime. Rupert came by and told me about the show at P.S. 1 where they
created a replica of the old 47th Street Factory. They had a silver room and people passing out LSD and an Edie
running around.
And Robert Hayes is now in the hospital with pneumonia. But I don’t think he has what he’s afraid he has. I
think he’s just run-down and scared because that’s what Cisco has. I mean, I don’t think you can catch it that
easily.
I did a Dog painting in five minutes at five of 6:00. I had a picture and I used the tracing machine that projects
the image onto the wall and I put the paper where the image is and I trace. I drew it first and then I painted it like
Jean Michel. I think those paintings we’re doing together are better when you can’t tell who did which parts.
Then the streets were deserted and we finally figured out it was Passover. Dropped Benjamin ($7).
Tuesday, April 17, 1984
It was a beautiful day. Took pictures of the street people, of about eight artists who were doing portraits of people
on the street. And there was a black ventriloquist with a crowd around him so I stuck my camera up to get the
picture but the dummy saw me and yelled my name and then everybody turned around and I had to sign
autographs. Took pictures of a couple of preachers, too.
Stopped at a Japanese place just to get some nourishment, and the waitress couldn’t speak English but she
wanted my autograph. So I guess my commercial’s still running in Japan ($75). We had drinks, my first time in
weeks, so that made life more bearable. And called John Reinhold. The 860 office said that Jean Michel was
waiting there, but I went to the new office and since I was high I terrorized everybody.
Walked down to 860 and as we passed the new chic food place on 23rd Street a couple of black truck drivers
yelled, “Hey faggots!” so that got me down. Especially because truck drivers are usually the ones who’re cheerful
and recognize me and wave. Maybe these were faggots themselves.
Got to the office and called Jean Michel and he came up and painted over a painting that I did, and I don’t
know if it got better or not.
Dropped Benjamin ($6). Glued myself, and cabbed to a dinner at Club A ($4). I was at a heavy-duty table next
to Diane Von Furstenberg who’s having Michael Graves do her new store that’s next to Vieille Russie. And I told
her not to count on a May opening, I told her how long it took Michael Graves to do John Reinhold’s apartment
and I said he’d probably take her little store and divide it into fifteen rooms with forty columns in each, and then
she got scared. And she talked about a party she was giving for Michael Graves, but she didn’t invite me.
Wednesday, April 18, 1984
I’m just on the phone with Christopher. Robert Hayes is in intensive care, his mother’s coming down from
Canada. He was coughing for weeks and pneumonia’s really dangerous, you can go just like that. Before he went
into the hospital he was home for weeks, he said from a bad flu. He came in for a business lunch once, though, and
I asked Gael why he had round little bandages on, and she said he’d just had moles removed, and that sounded
reasonable.
Then there was a lunch at the office for Charles Jourdan shoes (cab $6). Jay came to work glowing, he’s in love
with our fashion editor, Kate Harrington. And I said I thought she was going with John Sykes of MTV, and Jay
said, “Listen, she broke up with him the day she met me,” so I mean I didn’t want to get into that. Kate has eyes
for everyone. She’s so bubbly, so pretty. Let’s hope Jay stays in this good mood. And Jean Michel was after Kate,
too—she styled an Interview shoot of him and de Antonio in Armani clothes and he left five joints for her.
Victor called a couple of times and now he always brings up that I said he could be dangerous and he always
mentions Valerie Solanis. He’s staying at the Barbizon now, he said Halston’s changing the locks. He thinks
Victor’s stealing his Peretti candlesticks, but actually he just borrowed them to leave with the Barbizon as a
security deposit. Victor gave me two at Christmas, but that was with Halston there and it was only on the condition
that Halston could get more of them. If he couldn’t, then I was supposed to give them back. But Tiffany does have
more of them—I checked.
Sunday, April 22, 1984—New Hampshire—New York
I was up in New Hampshire just over the Massachusetts border in Hampton Beach with Jon’s old friend Katy
Dobbs, near where Jon’s family has a beach house. Katy talks a mile a minute so it made things easier. It was so
beautiful up there, I want to get a house there, too. It’s like Montauk. On the ocean. But they’ve put in bigger
windows so the whole view is a window. And they’re winterizing the houses up there. And it was too hard to put
the curtains down so I left them up so the sun woke me up every morning really early. I was reading the Ned
Rorem diaries while I was up there. From the sixties to ‘71. He missed the whole scene that we were part of,
though— he was back in the elegant forties and fifties still. He puts me down a couple of times, I guess.
It was Easter and we went to see a friend of Katy’s. Fred, her boyfriend who’s on the Nickelodeon cable TV
channel, was in Tennessee for a whistling contest. He’s so talented and cute. They call him “Andy” because he
looked like me with white hair—the Phil Donahue look—but after meeting me and seeing how old I actually am,
now they call him “Son of Andy.” He did the voices for two of the gremlins in the new Spielberg movie and he got
$500 a day. That’s not much. Three days’ work. The gremlins are forty minutes of the movie.
Oh, and on Easter services, they got up at 4:30 to go, but I couldn’t go. I didn’t want to go because I would feel
too peculiar in a church where they might see me praying and kneeling and crossing myself because I cross the
wrong way, I cross the Orthodox way. And they would be looking.
Then when they came back we took a ride and then went to Jon’s family’s house for lunch. They had about ten
people. Lunch was outside. They have Christmas-tree kind of trees. The twin brothers, Jon and Jay, were both
wearing bright green pants. They’re all macho but they like to freak for the weekend. The brother just broke up
with a beautiful model who lives in New York who I met once. He’s in his father’s business. Insurance. He just
bought a house of his own up there.
I haven’t heard anything about Robert Hayes.
Ned Rorem met Anais Nin just so he could be in her diary and she could be in his. And I want to do that, too—I
want to find somebody else who does a diary now so we can be in each other’s. And also in the morning the Easter
Bunny came and I ate chocolates in bed. And then it was time to get a ride to Boston and get the shuttle to New
York (tickets $171, magazines and newspapers $5).
Monday, April 23, 1984
There was an earthquake Sunday night at 8:40 in New York. And we had one last year, too. It’s really scary. I
thought Manhattan was built on the stuff that wouldn’t have it.
So my face broke out in pimples, I was being paid back for not going to church on Easter. And I was supposed
to go on Monday, but then I went to Seaman Schepps instead. To look at a bracelet. Benjamin and I wandered
around in the rain and the Interviews always look so awful when they get wet.
I still have a pain in my side and so I’ve changed my appointments with Dr. Linda Li to Tuesday so I won’t
have that and shiatsu on the same day, and I haven’t gone to Doc Cox yet about the pain because I’m hoping it’s a
muscle spasm or something, but if it’s not, I’m a goner.
Cabbed downtown ($7). Called Jean Michel and he came up and ordered Chinese food from a place on Sixth
Avenue. And then Keith Haring wanted me to go and see his paintings before they got shipped out, because he said
I influenced him—he’s painting on canvas now. So we ate Chinese food and things from Pie in the Sky.
Victor called and invited me to a small birthday party for Halston’s niece, and it’s Halston’s birthday, too.
And Robert Hayes is a little better, his temperature went down.
Dropped Benjamin ($7), went home, got dressed, then (laughs) crashed a dinner. It was for Shirley MacLaine
and I thought I was invited but it turns out I wasn’t. I mean, I’d had Brigid call and she said, “Cocktails at 7:30 and
dinner at 8:30.” So when I got to the Limelight at 9:00 (cab $6) the doorman said, “Oh my, you’re awfully early,
aren’t you?” And I said, “But I’m invited to dinner,” and he said, “Oh, oh, sorry.” And then we went in and dinner
was just starting. The guy said, “Excuse me, Mr. Warhol, let me just go check something,” and then he came back
and said, “Sorry Mr. Warhol, yes, it’ll be all right.” So I still didn’t know I was crashing. But I mean, finally I was
getting the idea, because it was really intimate. Only like thirty people. Bella Abzug was there and later on Iris
Love and Liz Smith came in. The theme of the party was “white” and Liz was in a white tuxedo and Iris talked to
me about the dogs because that’s all we have in common, and I just had a white turtleneck on but everybody else
was in white tuxedos. And the food was really good. Exotic. A vegetable that I never saw before that looked like
crinkled-up green beans. And some perfumed lamb that was interesting. And everybody gave speeches. I was the
only one who didn’t give a speech.
And her daughter was sort of pretty, Shirley’s, she looks like Penelope Tree sort of, and she gave Shirley a kiss
on the lips. And Bella got up and made a feminist speech, and her husband got up and then a three-tier wedding
cake came out, and Shirley gave her dramatic speech. And then there was coconut ice cream. And Shirley came
around and she patted me on the shoulder like a dog and said, “Hello there, Andy.” Then finally it was time for me
to leave and go to Halston’s.
Cabbed up to 63rd Street ($8). Halston’s niece is really pretty now. And Halston handed me a piece of paper in
the shape of a boat and I was so thrilled, I knew it was the rent check for $40,000. So that made my evening. And
since it was so rainy I didn’t have any gifts with me so I wrote an I.O.U. to Halston and Victor and the niece.
“I.O.U. One Art.” Liza said that Mark’s only doing his artwork now, that he’s stopped producing plays and now
he’s just working at his studio on Prince Street. So I guess he must be having an affair down there. She said he’s
almost ready to have a show.
So anyway I went home and I opened up the paper boat and instead of a check, it was just nothing—like
“Happy Birthday” or something. It wasn’t a check and it should have been a check. All done up like a boat. It
should’ve been a check.
Tuesday, April 24, 1984
I had an early appointment with Dr. Linda Li (cab $4.50). This is all to keep myself beautiful for business. Linda
Li with her secret powers, it’s all too crazy. And I can see why these Chinese women make out. It’s all sex. She
puts her hand on her cunt and pokes me in the gut through to the other side, and throws my whole body around.
She said she’s never dropped a patient, but I could’ve been the first. She has control over your body. She’s not bad-
looking. So I was there for a half-hour being tossed around. Then phone calls ($.50).
Jay’s still cheerful, so I guess his affair with Kate is still okay. I went over to Yanna’s for further beautification.
I went past the cops at the Police Academy, and the girl cops are cute, they’re not like dykes now.
Wednesday, April 25, 1984
The Kennedy kid, David, was the big headline. He’s dead, and they put out an extra edition and they were
screaming it, and it was selling newspapers fast. He was the one that everyone thought might be gay. Blond and
pretty and fey and not like a dog—he didn’t have those teeth. And this morning on the morning show they had Boy
George on for fifteen minutes, and he was being a problem, saying he screams at people who want autographs
now. And Count Basie was on for half an hour because he died.
Monday, April 30, 1984
Victor came by and he was putting me down, asking Jean Michel why he’s hanging around with me. And they
went off together to Victor’s to look at some things. And I hate the paintings that I did yesterday.
Then Jean Michel called me. His show at Mary Boone is coming up this weekend and I guess he’s nervous.
Sent out for lunch ($44.25). And the gossip is that Julian Schnabel left Mary Boone for Pace because they gave
him a million up front. And Jay’s still in a good mood so he’s working hard and looking around for a mover to
help us move completely out of 860 and up to the new place.
Oh and in Ned Rorem’s diary he talks about some girl named Jean Stein being so terribly in love with him.
Something like that. I’d like to mail her that page anonymously, let her see how it feels to be put down in print. I
think I will.
Tuesday, May 1, 1984
Got up early. Benjamin picked me up and we went to the Calvin Klein fashion show. We were late, but they’d
saved my seat up front (cab $6). Nan Kempner didn’t say hello, probably because she didn’t invite me to her
dinner that night for Jamie Wyeth, I guess she was embarrassed. But maybe it was my fault, because when you’re
late you rush in and you don’t know who to look at first because everybody’s there, so you’re awkward. And
Calvin’s stuff was like Perry Ellis with touches of YSL. I guess Marina Schiano puts in her two cents. The colors
were all somber. Blacks and greys.
It was a beautiful day, and I wanted to get out of the office but never did. Jean Michel came by and we worked.
Went to the Coe Kerr Gallery for the Jamie Wyeth opening. Ran into Lacey Neuhaus and Doug Wick, and talked
to Ted Kennedy, Jr. Jean Kennedy Smith was there and she was nice and smiling. Jamie invited me down to the
farm this weekend but I said I had to be packing and moving.
Cabbed to the Ritz ($4) with Jon, we went in to see the Stephen Sprouse fashion show. It was early but it was
mobbed already. My seat was gone, so I took Charivari’s. Teri Toye the transvestite was in the show. And
everybody was saying it was like the sixties. The show was great, really the fashion is so good again with these
disco kids, they have a real look. Like the boys with the straight cut over one eye. So extreme now.
Wednesday, May 2, 1984
It looked pretty out but then it was sort of windy. Was picked up by Benjamin and we went out on the highways
and byways with our Interviews.
And John Reinhold called and said he was leaving town on a trip and wanted to tear a dollar in half like we do
and then when he comes back we’ll put the dollar together and spend it.
And Woody Allen won his suit against the look-alike just like Jackie Onassis did against hérs. So now the poor
Woody Allen look-alike can’t work in commercials. They told him that unless (laughs) he became famous in his
own right for something he couldn’t pose for ads. Isn’t that something? But I mean, why can’t they just put
“Model Joe Schmo” (cabs $3, $5).
And I just hate the Trumps because they never bought my Trump Tower portraits. And I also hate them because
the cabs on the upper level of their ugly Hyatt Hotel just back up traffic so badly around Grand Central now and it
takes me so long to get home (cab $6).
Robert Hayes is doing really well, he’s recovering, it was double pneumonia, and he had a crying scene with
Gael, told her that he’d been doing too much coke and let himself get run-down and that he’ll never do it again and
that he was going to write me a letter. So it was double pneumonia, not AIDS.
Jean Michel was there but he was nervous about his show and I had to push his hand around the canvas. For the
first time in a while he’d taken heroin, I think, so he was moving slow (cab $7).
Then went home and Eizo gave Jon and me our shiatsu treatments. And my pain went away. Watched Dynasty,
and it was the first time Diahann Carroll was on the show and it was so good. What a camp. She meets Alexis and
she out-champagnes and out-caviars her—“This champagne is ‘burned.’ It’s been frozen at one point.”
I’m so sick of the way I live, of all this junk, and always dragging more home. Just white walls and a clean
floor, that’s all I want. The only chic thing is to have nothing. I mean, why do people own anything? It’s really so
stupid.
Thursday, May 3, 1984
Mary Richardson called and said that the only thing that the Kennedy kid who O.D.’d—David —had on the wall
in his apartment was the napkin drawing I gave him—I don’t remember if I drew a cock or just hearts.
Everybody at Interview was thrilled that Robert’s gotten better. I’m going over to see him. Gael said he’s
happier and brighter and younger-looking than ever.
Jean Michel called and wanted us to come down to the Mary Boone Gallery to look at his show, so I said we
would. So I took Jay and Benjamin and it looked great (cab $5). Jean Michel was very nervous. He was with a
pretty Korean girl who’s the secretary of Larry Gagosian, his gallery person in L.A. But he’ll just break her heart.
All these pretty girls go for him. They were lovey-dovey, holding hands. Then Jean Michel wanted to go to dinner,
so we decided to go down to Odeon because that way we’d be close to the Area party for Vincent Spano that Vic
Ramos was having (cab $6). And Robert Mapplethorpe was there and something’s wrong with the way he looks
now. He’s either lost his looks or he’s sick (dinner $280).
Area was close by but we took cabs because it was raining (cab $3). And the only big draw was that Matt
Dillon and Vincent Spano were going to be there, and Benjamin went up to Matt and said, “Andy’s looking for
you,” but he said, “Andy who?” And then later I did talk to him and he was just mumbling and looking for girls.
He really has to get a good movie soon, he needs one badly.
Saturday, May 5, 1984
It was beautiful and sunny, did a lot of work. Called Jean Michel and he said he’d come up. He came and rolled
some joints. He was really nervous, I could tell, about his show opening later on at Mary Boone’s. Then he wanted
a new outfit and we went to this store where he always buys his clothes. He had b.o. We were walking and got to
Washington Square Park where I first met him when he was signing his name as “Samo” and writing graffiti and
painting T-shirts. That area brought back bad memories for him.
Later on his show was great, though, it really was.
Monday, May 7, 1984
Jonathan Scull just called to say that the lunch was cancelled at the Whitney that was going to be for his mother,
Ethel, giving my portrait of her to them, because she fell off a ladder and broke her leg in two places. What was
she doing on a ladder? And I saw her the other week walking on 66th Street, going along, talking to herself,
swinging her hanky.
So went to the office and the office was busy. Bruno was there and Jean Michel was hiding our work from
Bruno—the ones that just Jean Michel and I are doing. Bruno has the ones that Jean Michel and I and Clemente
did, but he doesn’t know about these that’re just the two of us.
Bob Colacello called about the party that Sao’s giving for his birthday, and Brigid talked to him. I have a
feeling Brigid’s still very friendly with him. I’m invited.
Tuesday, May 8, 1984
Went to pick up Benjamin and we took Interviews and went over to Christie’s and the girl there was nice, she
showed us the show. And there’s a big fake of mine there, but I’d signed it. I don’t know why I ever did. But it was
Peter Gidal’s and he’d done that book on me, so I wanted to be nice once and I’d signed it for him. It’s four
Jackies and I never put them together in a print, I don’t think. No, my Jackies were all separate.
And then we left there and passed Regine’s and Benjamin nudged me because Paul Anka was saying hello and
I didn’t recognize him. He’s so suntanned. And Benjamin knew I did his portrait so he poked me. I just saw clips
of him when he was young on TV this morning. He looks a lot better now than he did then—he must have had a
lot done.
Jean Michel came up and was so paranoid, he smokes so much marijuana and then gets paranoid. Then he
called me up in the middle of the night and said that his painting at auction went for $19,000. I bet mine went for
nothing. Probably. My Liz. Probably $10,000. I can just see it. So his went for $19,000. And there were all these
parties for the Museum of Modern Art and I was invited to all of them but I didn’t go to any of them. Dropped
Benjamin ($6.50). Woods for dinner with Jon ($100).
Wednesday, May 9, 1984
Got up early but Benjamin wasn’t picking me up because they needed him for a moving day at 860, so I wandered
around alone, and it’s hard, I’m used to having him as a bodyguard. So I just fended people off by giving them
Interviews, I had a lot with me. Oh and I got an invitation to a second Jackie Curtis wedding. He’s marrying a boy
again. A priest is doing it. And Jackie’s picture is so air-brushed he looks fifteen. Blond hair and blue eyes.
The English advertising guy, Saatchi, who wants to buy the Marilyn wanted to pay for it over four years or
something, so now I don’t know. The whole point was to get money fast to pay off the construction guys at the
new building.
Oh, and Ruth Ansel called and said that Marvin Israel died, but I didn’t accept the call because I didn’t want to
accept that he died. He had a heart attack on Monday, in Texas, doing something with Avedon. He was the art
director of Harper’s Bazaar, I worked for him once.
Thursday, May 10, 1984
I went to Sotheby’s to see how my drawings were going. Early 1962 drawings. Fred had been there bidding on
them so that drove the price up, but some other guy got them. It’s all dealers who put the stuff in and bid it up. It’s
their business. All the people who have the work just bid it up. Ran into Jed looking at Art Deco.
Friday, May 11, 1984
I got an invitation to a show of silkscreen portraits of Francesco Scavullo photographs—done in silkscreen by
Rupert Smith! And Fred says I shouldn’t yell at Rupert but I bet they look just like mine. I mean, Rupert knew he
was doing something wrong or he would have told me, he would have said, “I’m doing this, I hope you don’t
mind.”
Sunday, May 13, 1984
homas Ammann called and we went down to look at the work of the artist named Fischl who Vanity Fair just did a
story on. He paints the things like a girl douching with another girl looking on with the pubic hair showing, and a
monkey and a baby—sort of copies of Balthus.
Monday, May 14, 1984
I went over to Dr. Linda Li’s and she did all the right spots and made the pain go away. But then in the Enquirer I
read the way you can press and do it yourself, so I don’t know, and then at the end of the article they say, “But call
your physician.”
Wednesday, May 16, 1984
I’m giving Rupert the cold shoulder. I mean, everybody who’s seen that Scavullo show he did said—well I mean,
he’s colored the eyes and lips and done double portraits, everything just like mine. I’m so mad.
Went down to the Paradise Garage for Keith Haring’s party and there were kids outside selling tickets to it,
although it was a free party. John Sex performed. Madonna didn’t start until so late that I only heard the beginning.
And that kid Bobby who lives with Madonna was there, the one I got the job for in Paul’s movie. And he’s in the
hospital for a leg operation—he had his hospital bracelet on—but he snuck out for (laughs) this party. And all
these kids were wearing Stephen Sprouse outfits, I don’t know where they get the money. Keith’s Juan was in
Day-Glo and it was like the sixties. And they have a phrase that’s like “Mark me,” when they want you to sign
their stuff. Maybe it is “Mark me.”
Thursday, May 17, 1984
Well the big shockeroo of the day was when we’re all at the office and it’s really busy and in walks my brother
who I haven’t seen in twenty years. Paul. He came up to buy a place for his son James who was with him, and
James’s girlfriend. James is the artist that I wouldn’t help when he came to New York. He wanted to work for
Interview and I told him to make it on his own. And now he’s buying the apartment in Long Island City that my
brother’s giving him money for. He’s got a Salvador Dali mustache, James does, and his girlfriend was bubbly.
And Brigid was loving it all. Plus I’d just gotten a letter from my sister-in-law. She said that George is getting a
divorce and the wife is trying to take away the business that my brother gave him. They have two kids. It’s a junk
business. You know what I mean—like they get scrap and electronics machinery and melt it down, and they get a
lot of gold out of it—you melt it down with blowtorches in acid and then the gold floats. They live in Pittsburgh.
And they’re buying up the black neighborhoods on the North Side.
And my brother speaks better than I do, he always was a good talker. He’s a big gambler, too. And he’s retiring
and bought a farm up in Erie.
Ran into Bill Cunningham on his bike, I just wish I could do what he does, just go everywhere and take
pictures all day. And he used to be a hat designer, but he went into photography when hats went out in like ‘64. I
met him around Serendipity. When hats went out his whole life disappeared. And now he takes these photographs
all day, I see him even in odd locations, like on 43rd and Lexington shooting people coming out of Grand Central.
He’s so meek and skinny, and he rides his bike, and you never see him eat or drink at these parties.
Cabbed to meet Lidija at 860 ($5). The place was emptying out. They were moving stuff up to 33rd Street all
day. Worked all afternoon. Rupert came up and now he’s meeker. Went to meet Jon at East-West for dinner (cab
$10).
Friday, May 18, 1984
Went with Benjamin to the camera store and bought the new Olympus camera that Chris told me about ($410)
where you can take 5,000 pictures on the battery and then it has to clear for a month. They have the old Polaroid
models still with the boxes and everything, and I should buy them up.
Tonight at Danceteria they’re putting on an “Andy and Edie” show—Ann Magnuson’s playing Edie.
My cousins from Butler came to lunch. One of them had called and said they were coming to New York, so I
invited them. She’s nice. I don’t mind her. They stayed all afternoon.
Monday, May 21, 1984
Peter Beard has the greatest commercial on TV now. It’s for Kodak. He’s on the outside of a helicopter taking
pictures. He’s got a new agent.
Went to a black-tie dinner at Mortimer’s for the designer Enrico Coveri given by Florence Grinda. And Barbara
and her Polish boyfriend were having a fight that I was in the middle of. Everything he said she contradicted. And
I don’t know why. And he’s ended up buying a house out in Connecticut right next to Peter Brant. He plays polo
like Peter. He has a good-looking face, like an old fairy would be good-looking like this, and he’s the Joe Allen
type—short and stocky with grey-black hair and I think capped teeth. He knows all the right people. And
everybody says he bought his title, he’s a Polish baron or something.
I had invited Jean Michel as my date and I was next to him, so maybe they thought it was a girl’s name.
Richard Gere’s Silvinha moved her seat to sit next to Jean Michel. And Jean Michel gave me all his meat for the
dogs, and Silvinha did, too.
I’m watching MTV right now. I don’t know what else you can do to these videos to make them different.
They’re all the same. They’re all like sixties underground movies, people running around. Like Stan Brakhage and
all those kids used to make.
Tuesday, May 22, 1984
Benjamin called in the morning and we dished on the phone for a while and then he came up. I called the elevator
man and told him about a spark I saw but he said the spark’s always there, that it happens all the time. Then, since
I had to go to the Doc’s at 3:00 I couldn’t eat because I was going to have tests. But we wandered around and I had
a lot of energy because of the vitamins.
Jean Michel came down to the office early. He was reading his big review in the Voice. They called him the
most promising artist on the scene. And at least they didn’t mention me and say he shouldn’t be hanging around
with me the way the New York Times thing did.
I opened up one of the boxes in the back that’s being moved and it had 16mm rolls of film and letters from Ray
Johnson the artist and I think my bloodstained clothes from when I was shot.
I realized that the reason Tony Shafrazi hasn’t gotten even one of the artists in his gallery into MOMA is
because Tony’s the person who defaced Picasso’s “Guernica.” But that’s not fair. Keith Haring isn’t at MOMA.
And they just have one thing of mine, the little Marilyn. I just hate that. That bothers me.
Then in the afternoon I went to Doc Cox’s (cab $7) and I protested over the thermometer that they used,
because it just sits there in water and everybody uses it, it’s not right. And Rosemary took my blood pressure, but I
have the feeling they just throw these tests out. Bubbles was tan. And they have a new heart machine so now I
don’t have to run up and down the stairs in the hallway (laughs) to get my heart going—it’s a big improvement.
And Freddy won’t take your blood if she doesn’t know you.
We went to meet Paige and Benjamin ($4). And after dinner ($120) at Hisae and drinks at Jezebel’s ($30) we
went over to Stuart Pivar’s because he was having people over and I wanted to learn about art. I brought a small
bronze with me that I just bought, three inches, and Stuart said it was a piece of junk, so tomorrow I’m returning
it. I had it on consignment.
And did I tell the Diary that Benjamin and I ran into Virginia Dwan and her daughter who’s married to Anton
Perrich who did all those videos and rented our old floor at 33 Union Square West when we moved out. They said
Anton was home with his painting machine and I was so jealous. My dream. To have a machine that could paint
while you’re away. But they said he had to be there while it painted because (laughs) it clogs up. Isn’t that funny?
Wednesday, May 23, 1984
I asked how Robert Hayes was and they said he’s still in the hospital.
Benjamin was supposed to be in drag when he picked me up to go to the Karl Lagerfeld dinner at the Museum
of Modern Art, but he wasn’t. We walked right into the elevator with Karl, who was sweet. Wearing lipstick with
his ponytail. My dinner partner was Fran Lebowitz. She was fun. She doesn’t drink or eat dessert. She smokes
constantly, though. She’s moving out of that apartment in the Village. I guess she lost the case. She sublet it and
had Jed do all that work but she never had any signed agreement with the person. And I think Jed really warned
her but she didn’t listen. So now she’s moving up to the Osborne across from Carnegie Hall. She was wearing
black tie but without the tie.
I put a lamb chop in a napkin for the dogs and got blood on my pocket. Dinner was over at 10:30.
Then Jean Michel was waiting down at Odeon (phone $.90, cab $10). And the Fischl guy came over and said
that as he was leaving the house, he had the TV show College Bowl Championships on, and I was the answer to a
question and that the girl from the University of Minnesota got it in a second. It was, “Who painted Marilyn
Monroe?” And I saw the dyke from Artforum who made me do all that free work—doing an original Dollar Sign,
and then in the same issue she let some guy write the worst review of me that’s ever been in the magazine.
Then we went over to Area and the theme was “Red.” And Jean Michel’s girlfriend Suzanne was there, the tiny
makeup artist. And Shawn Hausman, one of the owners—he’s Diane Varsi’s son—was on a ladder, I thought it was
part of the exhibit but he was fixing a fuse. Shawn told me that Eric Goode told him that he’s so awed when he
sees me that he gets goosebumps.
And Fred’s been going out with Joan Collins who I guess is having a fling with Mick Flick. I guess that’s how
these girls get their baubles—as thank-yous after a big night.
Thursday, May 24, 1984
Jay and the crew were moving. I opened a Time Capsule and every time I do it’s a mistake, because I drag it back
and start looking through it. Like I found some film fragments in one and then you just wonder where the rest of
the film is. The Whitney now has my old movies. I finally gave them to them—Vincent did. But they can’t do
anything with them without my permission. They’re just looking through them now and cleaning them.
Jean Michel came by and he was in a pretty good mood. We had Chinese take-out food. He was painting some
big black screaming people. Worked till 7:00. Jill Fuller picked me up outside in a limo and we went to see the
Pink Floyd guy perform at the Beacon Theater.
And then afterwards there was a dinner that Lorne Michaels was giving at Cafe Luxembourg, so we went over
there. Henry Geldzahler and Clemente were there and I felt bad because Jean Michel and I are doing the combined
canvases now without him and they’re coming out so good, whereas the ones we were doing with him, Bruno gave
us so little for. But maybe we’ll give Clemente some of our rejects and see if he can do anything with them. He’s
really sweet.
And Steve Martin came! That was exciting. He’s so good-looking. I thought that he was going with Bernadette
Peters but he was with this new girl and I didn’t know who she was. He has such a good body, and he’s really
attractive. Someone started to introduce us and he said no, that we’d met already, that they didn’t have to. He told
me he’d had a Marlon Brando of mine for two days but then had to return it because it didn’t go with his place, it
didn’t fit. The Jane Bonham Carter girl was there and she happened to call the girl with him “Vicky” and then it
clicked who she was! It was Vicky Vanini, who used to be married to Peppo Vanini, and now she’s the actress
Victoria Tennant! And here I’d been looking at her across the table and not recognizing her for an hour. No wonder
people think I’m on drugs. So then we began to blab and that was fun.
Friday, May 25, 1984
I called and screamed about that picture of Jean Michel in the Dolly Parton issue because it was so awful—cut in
that arty way. And when I screamed Gael said Fred had done it, so I called and screamed at Fred and he said it was
something that he’d done especially personally.
Robert Hayes is still in the hospital. John Reinhold called him but Robert’s mother wouldn’t let John talk to
him. He still had a temperature. His family’s been here for one and a half months. The hospital bill is going to be
so big. I guess Blue Cross pays for 80 percent, but still. It must be like $500 a day.
Saturday, May 26, 1984
Got up early. Jean Michel called a couple of times. He calls at like 7 A.M. because he hasn’t gone to bed yet. He
wanted to go to the Jackie Curtis wedding so I got myself together. Cabbed to St. Mark’s Church on Second
Avenue ($9).
But the wedding was called off there because the priest was upset because Jackie had called the newspapers
and done press, so he wouldn’t do the wedding, and so it was moved to Mickey Ruskin’s place at One University
so we went over there. Jackie’s relatives would come over and say things like, “I’m Jackie’s aunt from Toledo.”
And then Jackie arrived, so late as usual, and it’s the strangest thing, she’s still telling everybody that we were
roommates twelve years ago. I’m beginning to think maybe she really does believe that. Remember when he used
to tell interviewers that we were roommates and it was a big joke? Well now I wonder did he believe it then, or did
he start to believe it later, or did he just have a hallucination for a minute and it stuck? Anyway, for some reason he
now really does believe it. There were a couple of people there who looked like Valerie Solanis who came over
and said hello. Jackie was wearing a beaded cut-short dress and his teeth were so bad-looking. The groom was a
good-looking Czechoslovakian boy, maybe twenty-one or twenty-two, and maybe mentally retarded, I don’t know.
He didn’t open his mouth. So then we left there and went to the Village, and it was the Art Fair time and so many
people stopped me for autographs.
Sunday, May 27, 1984
Went to church.
John Reinhold picked me up and we walked from 66th Street to 96th Street and back, and by that time I was so
tired that I couldn’t face going down to the Village or anywhere. My bones were aching so I decided to stay in and
ate half a watermelon because Eizo told me watermelons are good for you, that they wash out your kidneys. And I
still have the pain. Doc Cox thinks it might be a kidney stone, he doesn’t know. It’s like a muscle spasm. I think
Lidija had me doing too many strenuous things—she kept making my routine harder and harder. But I think that a
person my age instead of doing harder things should do repetitions of the same level more.
Tuesday, May 29, 1984
Benjamin and I wandered and went into a Japanese restaurant and called John Reinhold to meet us, but then they
said they wouldn’t give us a table until he came. Then when he came they said they didn’t have a table and we got
mad and left in a huff and we were going to go to Pearl’s but then we went to Raga, and we go in and there’s a
“hostess” who thinks she’s so grand, and there’s absolutely nobody in the place—eighteen empty tables, and she’s
putting on these grand airs, like a drag queen or something, floating around with these sleeves. And she takes a
phone call and has us stand there waiting as if the phone call is more important. So we ate, and it was really
expensive for just what was going to be a run-in-quick lunch ($125, and I didn’t tip much, either).
“Yes, we may have a table for you….”I mean, what are these people thinking about? Left there, cabbed to meet
Lidija ($6).
Jean Michel was there, he’d gotten pizza but then didn’t want it. Then we painted an African masterpiece
together. One hundred feet long. He’s better than I am, though. Worked till 6:30.
Wednesday, May 30, 1984
Tina Chow was having a lunch at Mr. Chow’s at 1:00. So we went over there (phone $.80, newspapers and
magazines $4.50). And the best thing was Jerry Hall. She looked sort of voluptuous, and she had pictures of the
baby who looks just like Mick. And Jerry said to me, “I’m so glad I’m sitting next to you because you know, to
open my own beauty salon/dress place, it would only cost a million dollars and I could go to Europe and get all
these dresses and do all kinds of beauty treatments—it would be like Giorgio’s—and Mick won’t give me the
money, he said it would be too easy to get the money from him, that I should go out and do it on my own, so isn’t
it wonderful that I’m next to you?” So that was the laugh of the day—for a mere million I could invest in her
business that Mick won’t give her money for.
Thursday, May 31, 1984
Went over to see Victor’s new apartment at the Barbizon. This has a terrace and it’s beautiful. I guess about 20’ X
20’ but it costs $1,400 a week. You can get a room at the Barbizon, though, for $84 a night. Victor’s almost an
artist, I don’t know why he doesn’t become one. He saved every photo of every window display for Halston that
he ever did.
I was in pain from the shiatsu treatment. Vincent was working on the contracts, we’re selling a painting to try
to get money to pay all these new kinds of bills we have with the new building. I’m so sick and tired of it all.
Went up to Dr. Linda Li’s and she did her stuff and the pain was still there but this morning it’s all gone. She
saw some tea in my bag and said it was no good and she rejected me. She raises your hand and puts the vitamins
on you and she says that from how hard your hand comes down she knows if the vitamins are any good or what
you need. Stayed there till 8:00.
Oh, and did I say that I got this really serious letter from George Plimpton? I couldn’t believe it. Because I’d
given little Charlie Evans an interview for his high school paper and in it I said something about how George told
me he didn’t have anything to do with all the bad things that were said about me in the Edie book. So (laughs) he
writes me this totally serious letter about how it had been out of his hands and nothing to do with him. Oh, and I
noticed this “quote” from me in Edie where they have me saying “perhaps,” and it looks so funny. I don’t say
“perhaps”—George Plimpton says “perhaps.” I mean, if they’re going to fake quotes from me they should know
I’d say “maybe.”
Sunday, June 3, 1984
Went to the eleven o’clock mass. I always cringe when it gets to the part of “Peace, peace be with you,” and you
have to shake hands with the people next to you. I always leave before that. Or I pretend to be praying. I don’t
know how long they’ve done it because I went to the Greek Catholic church when I was young. But there was a
cute little boy dancing around, clapping his hands during the hymn.
Watched the Tonys. It was really sort of shocking when Chita finally got her award and she didn’t thank Liza. I
mean, The Rink wouldn’t have gotten done without Liza. And Chita didn’t mention her daughter, either. She
thanked her mother who she said hadn’t seen it.
Monday, June 4, 1984
I worked around the office, it got busy. I had to ship off the Marilyn, so that was sort of upsetting. To the Saatchi
guy in England. It’ll help with mortgage payments and stuff like that, but I don’t know if it was a good idea to sell
it.
Tuesday, June 5, 1984
Went to meet Benjamin at the jewelry auction at Sotheby’s and the Seaman Schepps thing that we wanted to pay
like $1,000 for went for $21,000.
There’s a big fly in here and I’m going to open the window to let it out … there’s this black guy across the
street with plastic bags going from door to door ringing. Could he really be a dry cleaner? One door just opened …
I’ll wait to see if he comes out with more bags … but if I pull the shade so the fly will stay out, then I won’t be
able to see out … oh, here he comes, yes, he’s got another bag, but … he’s going toward Park with it.
Jon said there’s a big shakeup today at Paramount, they want to get rid of people.
Poor Arthur Bell, the columnist for the Village Voice died, and he had two ages. The Voice gave forty-four and
the Times said fifty-one.
Wednesday, June 6, 1984
Rupert said that Rosemary from Doc Cox called and told him he has a leaking heart.
Oh and Keith Barish called and wanted me to do a walk-on in 9½ Weeks, which is with Mickey Rourke. So he
said $250 and then he went to $500 and then he went up to $2,000 but in the end we said no. Should I do it? I
don’t know, I was so exploited in Tootsie. They didn’t even pay me a cent. Oh it’s not worth it, you have to sit
around all day. Or night. I think it’s a night scene.
Thursday, June 7, 1984
Diane Lane was coming to the office to be interviewed and so I had to meet Gael Love (phone $.50, cab $5). I
asked Gael about Robert Hayes and she said don’t ask or she’d start to cry. She said, “After you’ve worked with
somebody for eight and a half years …” And then I did ask and a tear started forming. So I guess he has what
everybody thought he had. She said his sister came to see her and said there’s “always a chance.”
Diane Lane came and she’s beautiful and sweet, but she didn’t have much to say. She has a good philosophy
about her movies, though—she feels that if she did a good job then it was a good movie. She has to do some more
shots with Richard Gere when he gets back from King David and she doesn’t want to cut her hair again, so she’ll
have to do the big love scenes with a wig. And she said that whenever she didn’t feel “in the mood” Coppola gave
her a fatherly talk and said, “There are no moods.”
Gael was being too analytical so I asked Diane, “How’s your sex life?” And she laughed and said I was just
like Joan Rivers. I said, “Did you ever sleep with Warren Beatty?” And then she came out and said that she
actually had gone out with him and that he’d sat her on his knee and told her not to be afraid of sex, gave her
“fatherly advice” and everything. She said that she was chaperoned by her father.
Yoko Ono’s having a sale at Sotheby’s but it’s all junk—Art Deco jewelry she’s had lying around and, you
know (laughs), toilet paper that John touched.
Friday, June 8, 1984
Lunch at 860 was for the dean from Carnegie-Mellon whose suit smelled of mothballs. He wanted me to donate
some print or something or give money and they’d give me a chair, and this whole other stuff about scholarships
for young kids, I don’t know. It was (laughs) the most serious conversation I’ve had at the office in eight years. He
wants me to do benefits and things. He said he went to the acting school but then didn’t make it as an actor and
went back there and became a dean.
Monday, June 11, 1984
The air conditioning at home was broken and the plumbing and the TV all at the same time. And we found out
why the house is so hot—the heat’s been coming up all during this heat wave!
I talked to Rupert and he went to another doctor who said his heart isn’t leaking, that there was nothing wrong
with it.
And I just can’t face calling Robert Hayes. I just can’t…. Look, I called Henry Post and we talked and then he
was dead and I don’t know what it means, it’s too abstract. I just can’t do it. And I was never really friends too
much with him anyway. I mean, it would be different if it were Christopher or something.
PH called in the afternoon and said it looks like we’ll be doing our book on parties for Crown, half pictures,
half text.
Sunday, June 17, 1984
Was going to go to 860 but they were moving a lot of stuff to 33rd Street, so went there instead. And it was fun. I
didn’t realize that our part is a lot bigger than Interview’s part. Interview is actually only a small area. Ours is
really big with a lot of places I didn’t even know about.
Went home and watched the thing they did on me on MTV. They showed Heat and a little of Kiss. Don Munroe
talked and they had clips of the “Hello Again” video we did for the Cars. And I talked and I was okay.
I tried sleeping without a Valium but the wine I’d drunk at dinner drove me insane. Valium’s the perfect drug
for me.
Saturday, June 23, 1984
It was a sad day at 860 because the furniture was being packed up and shipped out. We have the company called
Nice Jewish Boys moving us and they really all are Jewish boys. One blond one was so cute but he’s going back to
Israel. They all wanted books, so I gave them some of the Philosophy books. I went through one old box from ‘68
and a picture inside was so strange. We were at a college and we were the only freaks there. It was Viva and
twenty of us. Before I was shot. We really were the only freaks there. These kids didn’t have long hair, and yet
they didn’t have normal-looking clean-cut short hair like now, either. Today everybody goes down to Astor Place
and gets a great haircut, but these kids didn’t even have any fashion. It must have been in a strange place because
by ‘68 practically everybody did have long hair. And they were pudgy. Maybe we were at this Catholic college, St.
Paul’s. Maybe that was it, but it was so sad to see—and seeing these pictures of myself!
I ran into Bob Colacello on Friday. He’s like a dapper rich person now.
Sunday, June 24, 1984
Well Fred is on hold at the doctor’s for multiple sclerosis and I’m on hold for lympho … lymphosomething. I
don’t know why they scare us like this. They told Rupert he had a leaking heart and then he didn’t, and Fred fell
off a horse and went and had a brain scan because he has numbing of the hand and tingling of the legs and now
they’re doing all these checks on him.
Bought makeup at Patricia Field’s (makeup $28.70, cab $7.50). Got Japanese red. But I like that stuff at
Fiorucci that just is a stain that gives your lips like a natural brown. Because my lips used to be so full and now
they’re not, they’ve just disappeared and where did they go?
We went and watched the Gay Day parade. The Gay Cops and me got the biggest clap and (laughs) I took
photos. Got film (film $6.90, lunch $60). And they had the contingents of Gay Docs and Dykes, the groups from
Oklahoma City and Virginia. And the Men & Youth organization. So sick. The float that got the most attention was
the S&M float where the big guys were in leather with the keys and everything. All the beauties must’ve been
shopping in Soho or out on Fire Island, ‘cause they sure weren’t in this parade. And there were guys in
wheelchairs being pushed by their lovers. I’m serious! It looked like Halloween but without the costumes. And
they had a Kate Smith record playing.
Monday, June 25, 1984
Dr. Linda Li was back in town and I had an 11:00 appointment with her. So I went over there and she’d been away
at a seminar or a conference, so she had some new tricks. She put a lot of ball bearings on me and she hit me with
hammers and it was fun.
Oh and the office was so sad, all empty. They even moved the coffeepot uptown to the new place, and so Brigid
wanted to buy another one for the transition period and I told her to go to hell.
Grace Jones had called and invited me to a screening of Conan the Destroyer at 6:00, so I went (cab $4), but
Grace was late so it didn’t start on time. Richard Bernstein was there and he made me feel terrible—he said he
went to see Robert Hayes in the hospital and they all had to wear masks. And he’s also been to see Peter Lester
and Peter’s got the kind of AIDS with spots. Richard said Robert looked terrible but that Peter Lester looked great
except that he had a shirt on to cover the spots.
Oh and I had to call Doc Cox’s office to find out the results of my tests, so finally I braced myself and decided
to be brave and that if it was anything horrible I’d just take it in stride. So I called and they said nothing was
wrong. After all that drama they made, and then nothing was wrong. So I hung up feeling that health sure was
wealth.
So anyway, Grace was just great, she’s a real presence. She had a big acting scene where she sees a mouse and
gets hysterical, which is so stupid.
Tuesday, June 26, 1984
I’ve been getting a lot of commercial portraits to do lately—like liquor bottles and things instead of people.
Thursday, June 28, 1984
Brigid made me write a letter to Robert Hayes. A note. So I copied down what she wrote and she sent it off to him.
He’s going home to Canada to die.
Steve Rubell called to say that he hadn’t seen me in a long time and that he was sending a car to pick me up
and take me to the Go-Go’s party at Private Eyes, and it was just the party of the year, kind of exciting. Paige took
photos. And they gave you yellow stickers and that meant you could have free drinks. Isn’t that funny?
Monday, July 2, 1984
Jean Michel called at 8:00 in the morning and we philosophized. He got scared reading the Belushi book. I told
him that if he wanted to become a legend, too, he should just keep going on like he was. But actually if he’s even
on the phone talking to me, he’s okay. And the phone calls from pay phones are now $.25. I’m just not going to
make calls anymore. All the pay phones uptown were converted already to $.25; downtown there are still some
$.10 ones left.
Tuesday, July 3, 1984
Chris walked in right when his ex-assistant Terry was there—she was picking up a photograph printing assignment
from me. So that was almost a big confrontation, but Benjamin saved the day saying they were his pictures.
Saturday, July 7, 1984
When I was walking on the West Side one of these days, from a block and a half away I saw this little figure
walking toward me, and you know, I never recognize anybody, but somehow I picked him out because he had that
walk that’s like folded inside of itself that says, “I will walk straight ahead, I will not look at anybody, I will not
make eye contact.” But I just felt like saying, “Hi, I think you’re great,” so I did, and he unfolded. Sean Penn. I
don’t know if he knew who I was or not.
Tuesday, July 10, 1984
Got up on the wrong side of the bed. Had a big fight with PH. Picked up by alias Ming Vauze and we did the
streets. Got magazines and newspapers ($4).
Paige was having a big lunch at the 33rd Street building for the black kids from Ralph Cooper’s Amateur Night
at the Apollo with their mothers and a couple of grandmothers (cab $6). And the kids all had these elaborate names
—like Latosha and Emanon—and then the mothers and grandmothers were Grace, Mary, Ann. And the boy,
Emanon, rapped with noises instead of words. They were all really cute.
And it looks like I’m going to be painting in the ballroom for now because the basement where I was supposed
to be put to paint is now filled up with prints and paintings. Good. I didn’t want to paint in a dark dump. But
eventually we’ll have to use the ballroom for big lunches and parties.
Grabbed Benjamin and we ran uptown and I just threw a bag in and we went right over to the theater where the
Muppets Take Manhattan was screening and Frank Oz who wrote and directed the movie—and he does the voice
of Miss Piggy and another one, too—came over and said, “You won’t remember me, but I was one of your friends
during the Filmmakers’ Coop days.” And he said he just loved the Philosophy book. He said he reads it all the
time, he called it “gentle.”
Wednesday, July 11, 1984
Went around to stores promoting Interview, and now I ask to use the phone at places so I won’t have to pay the
$.25 for phone-booth calls. And later in the afternoon Chris came to the office and (laughs) was doing the same
thing.
Gee, I’m looking at MTV right now and they use my paintings in a lot in videos. I just saw my Liz Taylor and
I’ve seen my Joseph Beuys in another one.
Tuesday, July 17, 1984
Decided to work until 7:00. Then cabbed to the Limelight ($3). And it was boring. Chris had T-shirts made up with
his photographs on them and he gave a shirt to everybody, but me he told to go buy one. I couldn’t believe it. And
I’m looking at these slobs he’s giving them to. It was air-conditioned and freezing there. One of Sidney Lumet’s
daughters, either Amy or Jenny, sat next to me and she’s a spoiled Black Jewish Princess. But she’s sweet and I
shouldn’t put her down, but oh God, she’s so dumb. She was being world-weary. She said, “I did everything when
I was thirteen and now I don’t even go out anymore,” those kinds of things. But I guess she’s likable, she tries
hard. She said how when she was younger she used to hate her grandmother, Lena Horne, but now she adores her.
Wednesday, July 18, 1984
Si Newhouse is coming down to lunch. He called and said he wanted to talk about Interview. But I invited him to
860, not the new building, so he wouldn’t see it was grand in case he was wanting to buy it. I’ll try to sell him art
instead. But you know how these things always turn out—he’ll probably say he wanted to ask me what kind of ink
Interview uses! He owns Vogue and Vanity Fair and 1,000 newspapers, but he’ll be asking me where do we buy
our pencils or something.
The Democratic Convention is too boring. I sat next to Jesse Jackson at a Time magazine dinner, and he was
too serious. He was “above” all of us.
Thursday, July 19, 1984
Si Newhouse came to lunch at 860 which we’re almost moved out of so there’s nothing there, and he offered to
buy Interview. But after I was thinking about it, I think they just want to buy it to get rid of the competition. I don’t
know how much he would offer. Nobody was around. Fred was in L.A. and Vincent was at lunch so I didn’t want
to hear any offer. He’s coming to lunch again and Fred will be there. I showed him old art and new art and he’s
interested in a Natalie. He said to stretch it for him.
Friday, July 20, 1984—New York—Aspen, Colorado
I was picked up by Benjamin really early. Flew directly to Aspen for the celebrity auction. Marty Raynes paid for
the trip. Richard Weisman was involved. Howard Cosell did the auction. They sold a $400,000 apartment. And
then they sold four portraits by me so I raised $160,000 for cerebral palsy.
Saturday, July 21, 1984—Aspen
Got congratulated on raising $160,000 worth of art for them. John Forsythe told me he bid on a portrait but
dropped out at $25,000. Now would be such a good time to really go after the Hollywood crowd, because now
they see that the portraits at this auction went for $40,000, so they would know that $25,000 was a bargain. If we
only had somebody in L.A. to follow up on this. Bob Colacello would have been so good at this.
Jack Nicholson was there all weekend, we saw him everywhere. He’s fat now. Jack Scalia gave me his phone
number for Italian dinner at his house in L.A.
Afterwards I told Dionne Warwick that I met her twenty years ago at a Brooklyn Fox rock and roll show and
she remembered and I’m not surprised because it was so odd—I was with Isabel Eberstadt who was doing an
article for maybe Vogue and she was talking to Dionne in her breathy society voice like Jackie’s.
Andy, 1981. (photo Ralph Lewin copyright ©1989)
Then-best friends Truman Capote and Lee Radziwill in 1974. (photo Peter Beard)
Sisters Lee Radziwill and Jacqueline Onassis.Lee rented the house from Andy in the early seventies (photo Peter
Beard)
Mr.Winters,the caretaker.(photo Anty Warhol)
Caroline Kennedy and photographer Peter Beard. (photo Andy Warhol)
Halston in the kitchen. (photo Andy Warhol)
Steve Aronson and his Newfoundland, Magnus, on the beach atMontauk in 1974. (photo Peter Beard)
Top: Lunch on the back lawn with Bianca Jagger and neighbor Dick Cavett. (photo Peter Beard)
Bottom Right: Liz Taylor in 1976 in the kitchen of the main house. Susan Johnson stands behind her. (photo Tom
Cashin)
Billy Boy in London, 1986. (photo Andy Warhol)
In Germany on the set of Querelle with director Fassbinder and star Brad Davis in March 1982.(photo Christopher
Makos)
Fred Hughes lounging in a European hotel room. (photo Andy Warhol)
In Berlin with artists Robert Rauschenberg and Joseph Beuys in March 1982. (photo Christopher Makos)
Gloria and Johannes von Thurn und Taxis in London, July 1986.
Visiting the Great Wall of China in 1982. (photo Christopher Ma/cos)
Fred Hughes, Jed Johnson, and Andy pass time in Kuwait.
With friends in Kuwait, in 1976.
(photo Andy Warhol)
Sylvester Stallone studying the Polaroid photos Andy had just taken of him. (photo Andy Warhol)
Farrah Fawcettat 860 Broadway, posing fora Polaroid photo that Andy will use in making her portrait.
Jerry Hall posing for her portrait Polaroid, (photo Andy Warhol)
With New York Met Tom Seaver in July 1977. (photo Christopher Makos)
Liza Minnelli posing for his portrait Polaroid, 1978.(photo Andy Warhol)
Top Right: Tinkerbelle and Divine. (photo Andy Warhol)
Top Left: Robin Williams thrift-store shopping in the Village April 17,1979.(photo Andy Warhol)
Middle: Jon Gould, Philip Johnson,and David Whitnry.(photo Andy Warhol)
Bottom Right: Truman Capote near his apartment in U.N.Plaza, summer,1978.(photo Andy Warhol)
Bottom Left: Bruce Springsteen, August 21, 1978.(photo Andy Warhol)
Bob Colacello and Nancy Reagan. (official White House photo)
Top: Fred Hughes and Jerry Hall,(photo Andy Warhol)
Middle: With Christopher Makos in 1982
Bottom: With one of the Dupont twins and Cornelia Guest.
Top: On Fifth Avenue with Fred Hughes and Yoyo and Bruno Bischofberger.
Bottom Right: With Jodie Foster.(photo Christopher Makos)
Getting weightlifting instructions from his trainer, Lidija. (photo Christopher Makos)
On a snowmobile with Jon Gould in Colorado on January 1,1983. (photo Mark Sink)
Top Right: Jean Michel Basquiat going into a show of his paintings at the Mary Boone Gallery. (photo Andy
Warhol)
Bottom Left: Jean Michel Basquiat’s portraits of himself and Andy, done in October 1982. (photo Andy Warhol)
Artist Francesco Clemente, (photo Andy Warhol)
Peter Martins, January 1987. (photo Andy Warhol)
Two of the “Kids at the office,"Wilfredo Rosado(left), a fashion editor at Interview, and Sam Boldon (right).(photo
Andy Warhol)
With Kenny Scharf and Keith Haring. (photo Patrick McMullan) Keith Haring art (in background), (photo Andy
Warhol)
Tama Janowitz and Ronnie Cutrone in matching Stephen Sprouse jackets at an art opening in 1985. (photo
Benjamin Liu)
Top Right: Steven Greenberg and Tama Janowitz in 1986. (photo Andy Warhol)
Bottom Left: Designer Stephen Sprouse at the 33rd Street offices, (photo Andy Warhol)
With model/actress Paulina Porizkova, Rie Ocasek, and Vincent Fremont, July 18,1986. (photo Pot Hockett)
Record producer Jellybean and Madonna. (photo Andy Worhol)
Alba Clemente with Julian Schnabel (photo Andy Warhol)
At a manicuring installation at Area in August 1985. (photo Patrick McMullan)
With Federico Fellini, March 26,1986. (phofo Patrick McMullan)
Liberace and John Sex at Andy’s 33rd Street off ices, December 6,1984 (photo Andy Warhol)
Debbie Harry wearing Stephen Sprouse, summer 1986. (photo Andy Warhol)
Yoko Ono, Sean Lennon, and Sam Havadtoy. (photo Andy Warhol)
Kate Harrington, Jane Sarkin, Don Munroe, Glen Albin, and Marc Balet at Kate’s birthday party in 1985. (photo
Pat Hackett)
With Pat Hackett in 1986 at the Hard Rock Café. (photo Sam Bolton)
Paige Powell and Jean Michel Basquiat in Hawaii in February, 1984. (photo by Janine Basquiat)
Paige Powell styled for an appearance in the movie of the novel Slaves of New York. (photo Tama Janowitz)
With Miles Davis, February 17,1987. (photo Christopher Makos)
With Grace Jones at the wedding of Arnold Schwarzenegger and Maria Shriver, April 26,1986. In the background
is a statue of Arnold—a wedding gift from Kurt Waldheim. (photo Peter Wise)
Stuart Pivar. (photo Andy Warhol)
In 1985 with Brigid Berlin’s dog Fortune in the first-floor office area of the former Con Edison building that Andy
bought and moved into at the end of 1984. (photo Paige Powell)
Viva, Marisol, Sylvia Miles, and Géraldine Smith at a lunch following the memorial service for Andy at St.
Patrick’s on Aprili, 1987. (photo Patrick McMullan)
Andy, 1986. (photo Patrick McMullan)
Sunday, July 22, 1984—Aspen—New York
Benjamin showed me that his seat on the plane converted into a toilet—if you had to go to the bathroom, you
would have to ask him to get up and then a curtain would come around you. So that scared me into not drinking
anything on the flight—you would’ve had to say, “Excuse me, but I would like to use your seat for a toilet.” But
Vitas had about six sodas and still he didn’t have to use it.
So anyway, this small plane had to add fuel in Denver because a load big enough to get us to New York
would’ve been too heavy to get us over the mountains, it’s a regulation. And then we stopped in Pittsburgh for a
minute (candy $3). There were six seats plus the toilet seat that Benjamin sat on. Got to New York.
Monday, July 23, 1984
Cabbed to meet Lidija ($6.50). And all the gym equipment had been moved out over the weekend so we just had
the bare essentials left at 860. I packed some boxes and that tires me more than anything, more than doing ten
paintings. Because it’s emotional.
The big news came about Robert Hayes and I didn’t want to think about it. The kids at Interview were all upset.
Fred says we have to do a page on him, but I just don’t know if that’s a good idea. But Fred says we have to.
Walked over to Private Eyes and started talking to John-John Kennedy and he’s so big and handsome now.
Then this kid started taking pictures and John-John said it would be okay if it wasn’t too obvious, but then it was
obvious, so John-John walked away. So many pretty people. Timothy Hutton came in and that was so exciting, and
Antony Radziwill. It was a party for the Cars.
Tuesday, July 24, 1984
Got woken up by Jean Michel talking about his girlfriend things. She has an infection in her tubes. This is the tall
tall blonde, Ann. He’s working his way up. He started with short girls and he’s getting more confidence and now
he’s with tall blondes that are just average-looking, but he’ll go on to the Swedish beauties, I just bet. Then he’ll
have a white baby with one and then dump her for a black girl, right?
Went down to meet Grace Jones at the office and we waited for three hours. Benjamin went out and made calls
and finally tracked her down at Bergdorf’s getting a fur coat out of the Revillon cooler. She spends all her money
on fur coats. She says it’s all she cares about, that she doesn’t care about money, just furs. I told her it’s crazy, that
you can’t resell them or anything, and that she should buy jewelry, but she just loves furs. It’s that insane. She
buys them and stores them all in the cooler. I was taking pictures of Grace for Vogue, and we were interviewing
her for the cover of Interview. But anyway, she was really late, and we were putting her down for hours and then
suddenly she appeared and it was all, “Oh darling!” So that would be funny to have all the put-downs in the
interview and then show when it all changed when she walked in (Benjamin’s phone calls $5).
Andre Leon Talley asked Grace if she thought she was white and she said yes. He’s just lowkey and good. Sent
out for champagne, but then we didn’t have ice. Everything’s gone from the office.
Wednesday, July 25, 1984
Walked around a little and then cabbed to meet Fred on Spring Street and Sixth Avenue to sign prints for the
building I did (cab $8). And the woman who owns the place is 5’ X 5’. And she was so grand. I kept asking her
how much the building cost and she said, oh well she just couldn’t remember, you know, so offhand, and I mean,
this is a person who would know to the penny in one second how much she paid for every floorboard. And it was a
glamorous reception room and I was jealous of the setup, so neat and orderly, and she’s been printing Norman
Rockwell for years.
Then Fred said may we have our check, please, and they didn’t even have it. And then the 5’ X 5’ lady had an
extra print there and she said, “Oh it would be so sweet of you to sign it to me,” and I just said no. And then later I
took it all out on Fred. I mean she was so grand, the fat slob, and they didn’t even have our check.
But I’m sure they do make up a lot of extras, these things are always showing up in Macy’s or somewhere.
Prints are so easy to fake. And I mean, museum posters? Forget it! Anybody can do a poster from this or that show
at this or that museum. I mean, I see my Brooklyn Bridge print being sold everywhere and where’s our part of that
money?
And Fred, since he stopped drinking, his grandness is appearing again, and it’s kind of scary. It only used to
appear when he was drinking and now it’s there without drinking. He’s going to Linda Li. And he doesn’t know if
she really believes this stuff or if she’s just out to make a hundred bucks. I guess she jangled up his nerves. He said
he just wanted to see what I was into now.
Thursday, July 26, 1984
Cabbed to meet Lidija ($6). Worked out and then packed boxes, tried to, all afternoon at 860. I’m just going to try
to stay on there as long as possible until they kick us out because I love it now with the whole place empty and it’s
so sunny up front and I hate to leave Union Square Park—I’ll miss the trees. As long as I have a phone, that’s all I
need.
Saturday, July 28, 1984
Went to Soho to go to Robert Mapplethorpe’s shooting session of Grace Jones for Interview that Keith Haring was
doing special makeup for (cab $6). Stopped at Central Falls for lunch because they advertise, they were thrilled to
have us (lunch $40). Then wandered around Soho, knowing that Grace would be good and late. Signed
autographs. Called Keith and he said to come in forty minutes. So to kill time we went over to Avenue D and 2nd
Street where Keith had done a thing called “Candy Store”—he painted a brownstone with a storefront red and
green and blue and purple and inside the kids sell drugs. Like heroin. Keith said he wanted to be around “hot
kids.”
Went to Mapplethorpe’s on Bond Street. Keith did Grace’s makeup and Mapplethorpe shot her and we were
there for three hours. Then went home to watch the opening of the Olympics on TV and it was thrilling, then (cab
$3) to Grace’s dinner that she was giving at Holbrook’s.
David Keith was there. He’s sublet Jon’s old apartment on 76th Street when Jon bought that one-bedroom
apartment in the Hotel des Artistes. David Keith’s career was so hot for a few minutes there. That’s when Jon met
him, from Officer and a Gentleman. He’d gotten there on time at 9:00—he didn’t know the Grace Jones Story. So
we explained to him that two hours late usually timed it right for Grace, but still she got there half an hour after we
did. And Grace’s mother was there. She was just a normal mother.
David left and came back with Twiggy. Grace insisted on waiting until he got back, which was 2:30 A.M., and
then we went down to Private Eyes.
Sunday, July 29, 1984
I took all my old bread to the park and tried to give it to the birds but they didn’t come around and I just hated
them for that. Went to church. Then was picked up by Jon, he had a car, and we went out to the Brants’ big spread
in Greenwich. Jed decorated the house and everything, and it was my first time seeing it. Rolling hills and white
columns. It’s impressive. Peter’s so into polo and horses, still. It was a lot of polo players at the place. I was
underdressed because Sandy told me it would be all right to just come like that, and then I felt crummy, especially
when I saw Jed was there. Fred came with Averil and her husband, and it was his birthday. I saw a couch that was
a copy of the one that I have on my first floor, and they’d had it done for $2,000, and I told them that they could
get one that was the real thing from the Roosevelt estate for $85,000. They have one of my paintings in every
room. And Peter had paid I think $500,000 for a new Jasper Johns that didn’t look like a Johns, it’s his new stuff, it
looks like an illustration.
Barbara Allen was there with the Polish guy, Kwiatkowski, and he does have capped teeth. I mean, she could
have just had Joe Allen’s teeth capped, if that’s what she wanted. I don’t get it. And Joe Allen was there with his
new wife, Rhonda.
They had a dance band that played during dinner and everybody danced. PH was with Jed.
And I went into the big room where they had a Marilyn over the mantle in a gold frame and it looked just
beautiful. Really beautiful. It looked like a million-dollar painting. It looked so right in that room with all the
America stuff. I wish I’d painted better in those days, though. The painting on it—it’s not painted too well. I didn’t
know how then. And they had my Merce Cunningham in the same room where the Jasper Johns was. And they had
my Mona Lisa on the way up to the stairs. I tried to take Jon back to see the Marilyn but then there were Glorious
Food waiters telling people not to go into the rooms.
Monday, July 30, 1984
I didn’t want to go to Robert Hayes’s memorial service, I was thinking of giving his family a painting of him, but
in the end I decided it’d be easier to just go so people wouldn’t talk.
And Chris just called me up to talk about the service saying that it was all a fantasy and why didn’t Robert’s
old boyfriends get up there and talk. He said he should have worn a black veil and gotten up there and said he was
the first Mrs. Hayes. I told him that eulogies are always a fantasy, but that that’s what you do. I think he must be
nervous, too, though, about Robert dying. I think we’re going to have to do something for this disease, though. I
mean like a benefit, because it’s like polio or something. I mean, they don’t know that it’s sexually transmitted for
sure—it’s just a virus!
Chris is so outrageous, though. After getting months of free lessons from Lidija by being with me, when she
needed a photo for the ad she wants to run, he said it would cost her $750!
At 4:00 we went over to 22nd and Park to the church for the service for Robert Hayes, and the place was
completely filled.
Tuesday, July 31, 1984
Susan Blond called and wanted to know who the people were who I wanted to get the Michael Jackson tickets for,
if they were anyone who could do anything for her. And she said that Michael might want to go to an art gallery
with me while he’s here. She said that they’d close the Museum of Modern Art for him, so that might be fun. Steve
Rubell said (laughs), “Michael might want to see a little art.”
A couple of people called about Bill Pitt—he died. I think maybe he committed suicide. His best friend called
and we talked. He thought maybe Bill had gone to a doctor to get a test for AIDS and that maybe he found out he
had it and decided to take an overdose. He wasn’t happy. Worked till 7:00. Went to bed at 11:30.
I’m going to go to a doctor who puts crystals on you and it gives you energy. I asked Dr. Li to recommend one
and she gave me a name. Jon’s gotten interested in that kind of stuff—he says it gives you “powers,” and I think it
sounds like a good thing to be doing. Health is wealth.
Wednesday, August 1, 1984
Somebody told me there’s a thing in the Sunday New York Times Book Review about me in a review by an Iranian
guy, saying that the Shah and somebody else got together and talked about how unattractive I was. That ruined my
day, hearing that.
I went to the crystal doctor and it takes fifteen minutes and the three people in the waiting room I knew, even. It
cost $75 and he told me my pancreas was the only thing still giving me pimples. It was fascinating. Really
fascinating. He and the secretaries wear crystals around their necks. He said his was very special because it was
programmed by the head person of the crystal place. And the secretary’s was blinking like a light show. He didn’t
give me a crystal, he gave me the name of a place to go to buy one and then I’ll bring it to him and he’ll check it
out.
Christopher came by the office. He saw a lot of pictures and he said, “Oh, do you have work for me?” He still
doesn’t know that I’m using his ex-assistant Terry, but I’m going to have to sit him down and break it to him one
day. I mean, she does it for half the price, for $3 a print— and he charges $6. I mean, after all those free trips he
got and everything, he’s just crazy. Well, I’m crazy. Why did I take him?
Oh, and Dotson Rader is doing a book on Tennessee Williams and he interviewed Chris for it. Chris used to
work for Tennessee—he got $400 a week for taking care of his dog, he says. Remember, I first met Chris at my
Whitney Retrospective in ‘71 when Dotson Rader brought him, and Dotson was a friend of Tennessee’s.
Friday, August 3, 1984
Went to Bernsohn, the crystal doctor, and he worked on my pancreas.
Saturday, August 4, 1984
Worked all afternoon till 7:00. Susan Blond called and said that we could go to maybe meet Michael Jackson in a
hotel room before his concert at Madison Square Garden. So we cabbed to the Penta Hotel ($5). It’s the hotel that
was called the Statler Hilton until last week or something and now it’s the Penta. But the cab wouldn’t go near the
place because of the mobs for Michael, so he let us off and we had to walk.
Finally we found the place, we got Elevator B and went up, and Calvin was there, and he was mad that he’d
come so early. And Marina Schiano was with him and his girlfriend Kelly. And Rosanna Arquette, the actress,
came up and was so sweet, and I asked her if we’d ever done anything on her in Interview and she said, “No, and
you’ve just got to!” But then I remembered that we had done something—but just a “First Impression.” Little Sean
Lennon was there and that was exciting. And then this apparition appeared and it was Michael Jackson.
Susan Blond pushed me into his arms and he was shy, and then people pushed me away, and Keith gave him T-
shirts and everybody was meeting everybody and then I was pushed back at him and it was anticlimactic and then
it was over. I shook his hand and it was like foam rubber. The sequined glove isn’t just a little sequined glove, it’s
like a catcher’s mitt. Everything has to be bigger than life for the stage.
We went to the show and it was laser beams and a movie where a sword had to be pulled out of a stone and
Michael pulled it out. Bianca arrived late and the Jackson father was in her seat and she didn’t know who he was
and tried to kick him out, but Susan Blond got up and gave her her seat.
And then after the concert we called Mr. Chow’s to see if they’d be open and they said yes, that they had
leftover food. And at Mr. Chow’s we were next to Anthony Quinn and he said hi and I didn’t know if I should go
over to his table, I never know, so I played it shy, but then when he was leaving he came over and sort of hugged
me, and I remembered that he’s an artist, that he paints.
Sunday, August 5, 1984
Jean Michel wanted to go to the Jermaine Jackson party at Limelight. So we
went down there (cab $7). And it was one of those parties where the
bouncers were all dumb Mafia-type guys who didn’t know anybody. Jean
Michel took us to the wrong section and they told us to beat it, and he said,
“Now you see how it is to be black.” And all the people who I don’t know,
Jean Michel’s just sitting there and then he’ll say, “Hi, man.” He went to
school with them or something. He told me he went to a school in
Brooklyn, St. Ann’s, that’s sort of chic because you had to pay. And then he
said that when his father lost money he had to be bussed to a public school
that was a lot of Italians and the boys there used to beat him up and he
didn’t like it. But I guess the education was good, though, and that’s why
he’s smart.
Then we got to the VIP room and it was like a remake of an old party.
Janet Villella was there and Linda Stein, and it was free drinks (tip $10).
Then they came in and told everybody to leave and get out because
Jermaine was coming in, and that we could come back later, that (laughs)
some of us would be selected to come back. There were some sort of drag
queens there with jewelry on, and so we all had to get out, it was so stupid.
And you have to walk for a block to get to the next room. And the
photographers there are so bored with seeing me, they don’t even say hi
anymore. Hold on, the other line’s ringing….
Oh gee, that was Benjamin calling and he said that he and Paige were at
the Limelight and they heard I was in the VIP room and they tried to get in
but couldn’t. And—this is funny— he said that there were three Olympic
guys there wearing their gold medals. So I guess those were the ones I
thought were drag queens with jewelry! Gee.
So anyway, Jean Michel wanted me to see his paintings down on Great
Jones Street, so we went there and it’s a pigsty. His friend Shenge—this
black guy—lives with him and he’s supposed to be taking care of the place,
but it’s a sty. And the whole place just smells so much of pot. He gave me
some paintings to work on. Left there (cab $8).
Monday, August 6, 1984
The unmentionable day. I’d told everyone I didn’t want to hear the word
“birthday.” Benjamin picked me up and we cabbed to 70th and Broadway
($4). Dr. Li said that she’d been at the Michael Jackson thing and I was
surprised. Then I put it together—Benjamin had said he saw Roberta Flack
at the concert, and Dr. Li has a picture of Roberta Flack in her office, so I
asked her if she was with Roberta Flack, and she said yes. So now I’m
trying to figure out if they could be dykes.
Then cabbed to the Whitney where there was the lunch for the
presentation by Ethel Scull of the portrait of her that I did in the sixties (cab
$4). They were serving lunch in front of the painting.
Ethel hadn’t arrived yet and when they called her she was in the bath,
she thought the lunch was Tuesday. Finally she arrived in a wheelchair and
a hat with the big cast on her leg. It was so sad. Like a movie moment
where everybody’s waiting. The painting’s not very good, even. It was just
—I don’t know. And she said all these things about how I’d wanted $1,200
cash for the painting. In cash, she said, and I mean, I don’t remember that—
I wouldn’t have even discussed money. I can’t even do it now, so I can’t see
myself saying, “I want $1,200 cash.” It must have been one of the Bellamy
Gallery people or Ivan Karp or something who got paid. And she said she
came to my house and my mother answered the door, but why would my
mother answer the door if I was expecting somebody—I’d be right there. I
don’t know, it was nutty.
And I ran into one of the old kids from Max’s and they told me they
finally read Edie over the weekend and that they weren’t shocked by the
drugs or anything anybody said about me—that the only thing that shocked
them in it was reading that I sold some of my early films to somebody, that
they couldn’t believe I wouldn’t be keeping them for myself. But, see, I
didn’t really sell them—I have them back now, the guy’s contract expired.
Oh, it’s all Fred’s fault that I’m in that book. He kept after me to talk to
Jean Stein. Because she was “social,” my dear, and was having parties. So
me talking to her made it look like I sanctioned her book.
So it was so boring and gee it’s such a sad family—Ethel doesn’t speak
to her sons. David Whitney gave us a tour of the Fairfield Porter show,
though, and I looked at Mondrian, and he just took tape and painted it and
then Sidney Janis owned these things and it became a business.
Then at 3:00 went downtown (cab $6). Drue Heinz called to wish me a
happy birthday. So did some other people. I got a big twelve-foot weed
from Renny the florist.
Paige picked out a place to have dinner and I invited Jay but then he
called back and Benjamin got the phone and Jay asked would I mind if he
brought Kate Harrington, and I didn’t say anything, and then he asked
Benjamin, “Did Andy just make a face?” He just wanted to start trouble. He
does these things so people will feel guilty when he doesn’t want to come
anyway. But Benjamin was great, he just said, “Here’s the address—if you
want to come, come.” And I would have yelled at Kate if she came, since
she’d left work at Interview that afternoon saying she was sick.
Well, we went to 79th and Lexington to this place called Jams that we
go by all the time and never knew was there, this chic place. It was
expensive, but the food was so good. The whole thing was like the Four
Seasons used to be when the guy was there who used to grow the garden
stuff in his own patch in Connecticut. The dessert was incredible. Jean
Michel ordered a lot of champagne and he said he’d pay for it but I
wouldn’t let him (dinner was $550). It was underplayed, nobody said
“Happy Birthday” and it went smoothly. Paige had a strapless pink dress on
and she took her camera into the kitchen to do movies. Jean Michel dropped
me off and it seemed like being with Jean Michel didn’t bother Paige too
much, she’s more recovered from him. Then when he was dropping me off
he said that he wanted to go fuck her. I told him that that would just start
trouble again. I told him he should give her some artwork because she’s the
only girl who ever really helped him out, gave him his first uptown show
and sold so many of his paintings. And she never would let him pay for her,
she was being very independent, paying her own fare to Hawaii and things
like that, and I don’t know why he never liked that, somehow.
And it was nice to see little Suzanne the makeup girl the night before at
Limelight wanting not to get stuck with him—it was refreshing to see a girl
trying to get away for a change.
Tuesday, August 7, 1984
Went to see Dr. Bernsohn. I told him that after seeing him the last time I
went out of alignment and he said that maybe it was a good thing. He was
sort of putting down Dr. Li. She sent me to him. He was saying he doesn’t
believe in vitamins. I’m going to stop taking them and see if I feel better.
I was meeting David Whitney and Philip Johnson for dinner at the Four
Seasons. Invited Keith and Juan and Jean Michel. Philip goes to bed at
9:00, so he wanted to have dinner at 6:30 but I made it 7:30.
The Four Seasons was jammed. I expected good food, I’d been spoiled
by Jams the night before, but the food was terrible. Doc Cox was there. I’d
put on my Stephen Sprouse neon tie. I really looked like the sixties.
Helen Frankenthaler was at another table with Andre Emmerich and she
sent a note to Philip that she was keeping an eye on him with all the boys,
and I’ve got that note and it goes into the archives. Everyone was sort of
quiet, not much chit-chat.
Then David got drunk and started what he always starts when he’s had a
few drinks, that when Philip kicks the bucket he’ll move in with me. It’s
scary.
Keith wanted to go to Rounds, the gay place at 53rd and Second, and I
didn’t, so I said I’d never been there because I hadn’t in five years, and so
we walk in the door and the first thing the waiter says is (laughs), “Mr.
Warhol! It’s so nice to see you again!” Jean Michel wouldn’t go to Rounds.
He called this morning and told me that in the old days when he didn’t have
any money he would hustle and get $10 and he didn’t want to remember
that.
So Jean Michel went downtown with Keith. I walked the Doc uptown
and he kissed me on the cheek, which was so tender.
Wednesday, August 8, 1984
There were eighteen trucks parked on my street and sitting on my stoop was
this guy from a movie company, and I asked him what they were shooting
and he said, “Brewster’s Millions.” And then he said he was Carol LaBrie’s
half-brother—Carol, our star of L’Amour. He took us into the big truck near
us and there was Richard Pryor. And he was a lot better-looking than I
remember when I last met him. Actually handsome. With this blonde. I
don’t know if she was in the movie, too.
It was really hot and muggy in the truck, the air conditioner wasn’t
working too well, and I was going to invite them into my house but the air-
conditioning there wasn’t much better. I was considering it, really I was.
And it was hard to hear because the air conditioner in the truck was going.
He said he’d just seen Bad a couple of months ago. I wonder if the little
gold cross he was wearing was his own or for the movie.
Thursday, August 9, 1984
Cornelia called while the auction for her debutante book that she’s doing
with Jon and another person was going on, and it first was twenty-eight, and
then it was thirty-seven with a smaller royalty and then it was thirty-five but
with a bigger percentage.
Went to the movies with Keith and Bobby, Madonna’s ex-boyfriend
who’s sort of Keith’s friend now. I had to sign autographs and they were
amazed that so many people yelled my name and would know an artist. I
should have asked the people who yelled if they knew what I did for a
living. All the blacks know me, I must be in their consciousness. It’s the
white hair.
It was almost empty in the theater but it should’ve been completely
empty. This movie, NeverEnding Story, my God … and it’s a big hit in
Germany. It’s sort of my philosophy—looking for the nothingness. The
nothingness is taking over the planet. It was like Alice in Wonderland and
E.T. and “Rumpelstiltskin.”
Then afterwards Bobby knew all the places in the area, because
Madonna had taken him to all of them. So we went to Jezebel’s and then
Jezebel came over and she was this fancy black lady. And then in walked
guess who? Mickey Rourke. Who PH just interviewed for the cover of
Interview. But he didn’t see me and I didn’t say hello.
Monday, August 13, 1984
Jane Fonda called and I took the call and that was dumb because she always
wants something. It’s funny the way she just calls people and asks them to
do things for her. She wants me to go up to Boston with the paintings I did
of her, which she never even bought—she borrowed one but it’s back, and
the prints were made to sell for her husband’s campaign—but he can’t be
running again, can he? That was just last year, wasn’t it?
Tuesday, August 14, 1984
Brigid’s pug walked across the painting I’d just done. He had orange and
purple feet. Madame Defarge kept knitting away. Worked till 7:00. I didn’t
go to dinner with Edmund Gaultney and the people who want to do a
portfolio. Hedy and Kent Klineman. She’s a friend of Jane Holzer’s. But I
just get this feeling about it: People finance a portfolio and then start to get
nervous and dump all the prints (cab $7).
Home at 10:30. Watched Ann Jillian play Mae West and she was good.
They always give them a big love affair, they make that the big thing.
Wednesday, August 15, 1984
I’m still looking for ideas. This fall it’ll be a whole new look, new people.
Because five years into the decade is when it really becomes a decade. The
eighties. They’ll be looking over all the people and picking the ones from
the last five years that’ll survive as the eighties people. It’s when the people
from the first five years will either become part of the future or part of the
past.
Worked till 4:30. Cab to the crystal doctor and this time it was a real
experience. This session was like an exorcism. He had me lie down on his
table and close my eyes, and then he asked me, “Do you know where you
are?” and I kept saying, “Well what do you mean?” and he kept saying, “Do
you know where you are?” And I kept saying, “What do you mean?” and
finally I said I was lying on his table and he said, “Oh, I thought you might
not know because your eyes were closed.” And he would touch me here and
there and when I wouldn’t have any reaction he said that I wasn’t in touch
with my pain. But it didn’t hurt is the thing. But he said it was because I
wasn’t sensitive to the pain yet and that I would have to become sensitive to
it. And he took my crystal and asked it, “How long? One minute? Two
minutes? One hour? One day?” And at four days the crystal told him yes, so
that’s how long it’s going to take for this crystal to be programmed. I said
that I could go and get another one that’ll be ready sooner. He said no. So
I’m going to wait four days and then I have to have it with me always and
not more than ten feet away when I’m asleep. I really do believe that all this
hokum-pokum helps, though. It’s positive thinking. And it’s why people
wear gold and jewels. It does have something. And if you wear pearls
around a stone it does do something for you. He said I had some negative
powers in me and I asked him how long I would have to come to him and
he didn’t tell me. It’s so abstract. But you do feel better when you get out.
And the funniest thing was I picked up some chiropractor magazine and
Jack Nicholson, our Interview cover boy, was on the cover of that, too.
Standing with this chiropractor to the stars.
I had a fight with Fred. His attitude is so—it’s like he’s a magazine-
editor-on-the-phone. And I don’t know if he’s on the ball or not. I know he’s
doing his best, but …
Thursday, August 16, 1984
DeLorean got freed, he’s thanking the Lord.
Monday, August 20, 1984
Jean Michel called at 7:30 A.M. from Spain but I was in the shower and I
missed it. He was in Ibiza and now he’s in Majorca, he’s the new darling of
the Bruno set. And I’m just expecting him one day to come in and say, “I
hate all these paintings, rip them up,” about the ones we’ve done together,
or something. Oh and Keith told me that the name Jean Michel used to use,
SAMO, stood for “Same Old Shit,” and he said that Jean Michel was the
biggest influence on the new artists.
Cabbed to Jams to meet Philip and David and Keith and Juan ($6). The
food was so good, fish cooked with the right spices, coriander or sage—it
makes such a difference when you cook right with spices.
I tried to get a design out of Philip for a one-room house. They cried
poor. I cried poor. Keith cried poor. It was everybody crying poor. So crazy.
David had three martinis but was normal, somehow. We were there from
7:30 to 10:00. I asked Philip how it was to be in an airplane crash and he
said exciting. This was about seven years ago. He was the only one not hurt.
They landed in cherry trees (dinner $400).
Philip’s having dinner at the Newhouses’ and Sandy and Peter Brant will
be there, too, and Si Newhouse has the Natalie picture there and we’re just
hoping he buys it. And with that group there it could go either way. Because
Peter and Sandy might just try to sell him one of mine that they have
instead. Or else they could want him to pay a lot for the Natalie so that it
would make the value of theirs go up. I have another Natalie somewhere,
but I can’t find that Warren. It’s missing from the Factory. I mean it must be
around somewhere rolled up. And if Newhouse doesn’t buy it I think I
should write a letter to Robert Wagner. I think they’re bringing his series
Hart to Hart back because people have been writing in.
Wednesday, August 22, 1984
Gael Love called and said she signed the deal with the Swatch people where
if you buy two subscriptions to Interview you get one Swatch and if you
buy two Swatches you get one subscription. She thinks it’ll bring in 30,000
new subscriptions.
And this morning I woke up to The Toy with Richard Pryor and it’s
funny. I asked PH to write him a letter from me saying that I wanted her to
do the first part of an interview with him when she’s in L.A. next week, and
that I’d then do the second half myself when he comes to New York, and I
signed the letter and sent a Philosophy book so we’ll wait to hear.
Tuesday, September 11, 1984
PH finally got back from L.A. The Richard Pryor people told her Richard
was “in seclusion” in Hawaii and that they were going to “wait to give him
his mail when he gets back in October.” She was out there trying to get a
screenplay she wrote sold—Coppola’s Zoetrope studio had it for two years
and didn’t get it financed and then they went bankrupt. While she was out
there she wrote up the treatment I asked her to about a sixties “Girl of the
Year” because I want to show it to Jon and maybe he can get Paramount
interested.
And it’s a good thing she’s back because she was about to get fired from
her one-minute-a-day job. While she was gone Truman died. His old
boyfriend Jack Dunphy got $600,000 and was carrying the ashes in a
golden book with “TC” engraved on the side. And Brigid figured out that
Kate “Harrington” isn’t Truman’s niece—she’s actually Kate O’Shea! The
daughter of Truman’s old boyfriend Jack O’Shea. The one who lived on
Long Island and had a wife and lots of kids. And I’m doing paintings now
of Truman for the cover of New York magazine.
So Jean Michel just called me and I haven’t heard from him in two days.
Now he’s staying all the time at the Ritz Carlton instead of down on Great
Jones, and his room is like $250 a night. Fred went off to Lord Jermyn’s
wedding. Jay’s on jury duty and Kate broke up with him and I don’t know,
he seems sort of relieved.
I read the article in the Times, very low-key, that said that Barry Diller
was leaving Paramount to go to Fox! And that he was getting $30 million.
So Jon will probably now work for Frank Mancuso there at Paramount or
something. It’ll actually be better for him. Barry did make the place great,
though.
I worked on Judy Garland for Ron Feldman. The “What Becomes a
Legend Most” advertisement.
Wednesday, September 12, 1984
Richard Weisman called and said dinner was on with Kathleen Turner from
Body Heat and Romancing the Stone. Went to Richard’s and Kathleen
Turner in real life is so chic and worldly. She says she’s about to star
opposite Jack Nicholson in something that I didn’t get the name of because
I felt I should know it. And she just got married to this guy, Jay, and they’re
a funny couple. He’s about my height but with heels on she was taller than
him. He started out in Lance Loud’s band the Mumps, and then he worked
for his father and then he went into business with this friend of his and
bought all these real estate properties in the slump of ‘74 when they were
cheap and he became a millionaire.
And Richard had a girl there who was like Judy Holliday, but dumb for
real. Really dumb. I haven’t met a girl like this for a long, long time. I don’t
know where she would come from. She was an airline stewardess. She said
to me, “Gee you look peculiar,” and they said, “He’s an artist,” and she said,
“I have a sister who’s an artist, yeah, and she looks peculiar like you, too.”
And then she asked me if I did something to my hair. And then Richard
took her upstairs to talk to her.
Thursday, September 13, 1984
Went to Dr. Bernsohn’s and I asked him if we could put him in Interview
and he said, “I’m not doing the kind of things I would want people to know
about.” But you do feel energy when you leave there. And the same with
Dr. Li—you feel energy. So something is happening. That guy Christopher
made me go to, I didn’t feel different at all. But these ones do something.
Like when Eizo made his hand sweat just by concentrating. Dr. Bernsohn is
strange, he said he was living with his parents until just recently. Now he’s
buying a co-op. He said he’ll give me stones that’ve been programmed for
him but he’ll reprogram them for me. And he said he wants to come down
and look at my paintings to see the vibrations he gets from them, but I’m
afraid he’ll see a $50,000 one and say, “I want that.” And then what will I
do? If I say no he’ll want to cure me of negativity. It’s like a—what’s that
word?—a “scam.” But then you do feel energy, so it’s working. And the
healing people do have such hot hands. There must be something to it.
Cabbed to 52nd and Lex to meet Jonas Mekas and Timmy Forbes at
Nippon (cab $6). They’re trying to raise money for the Filmmaker’s Co-op.
I asked Jonas if he’d seen any movies lately and he said no, that he was just
trying to raise money. And really (laughs) he never saw movies. He never
did.
Worked on the Truman Capote cover for New York.
Friday, September 14, 1984
The MTV awards were so exciting, it was like the Brooklyn Fox shows in
the sixties with so many stars. Diana Ross was my date, but she was in
another row, the first row, because she was picking up Michael Jackson’s
awards. Lou Reed sat in my row but never even looked over. I don’t
understand Lou, why he doesn’t talk to me now. Rod Stewart and Madonna
and Cyndi Lauper and Bette Midler and Dan Aykroyd and Peter Wolf were
there.
After it was over it was raining so hard. Like a repeat of the Diana Ross
concert in Central Park. We went over to Tavern on the Green and everyone
had to stand in the rain for twenty minutes with everyone’s umbrellas
dripping down your neck, and then inside it was wall-to-wall celebrities but
they’d been so humiliated by standing in the pouring rain that all everybody
did was complain to each other.
Saturday, September 15, 1984
Had dinner with Jean Michel who brought a woman who’s doing a cover
article on him for The New York Times Magazine. He’s getting the cover!
And he told her all this stuff about being a male prostitute before but she
can’t use it. I guess he told her because he wanted to be fascinating. The
right woman can get anything out of him.
Sunday, September 16, 1984
By the way, John Reinhold told me that he keeps a really personal diary. He
hides it in a closet and he took it out and read last year’s entries. It’s
dangerous, but he only uses initials, like, “I went with B.” If I did it that
way, though, I’d forget who “B” was.
Jean Michel called and he told me about the problems he’s having with
Shenge, who takes care of his place on Great Jones Street. Shenge has his
own place downstairs but then he goes up and uses Jean Michel’s bath and
bed, and now after staying at the Ritz Carlton, Jean Michel is used to
having his bed tucked in. He found Shenge on the streets, he wasn’t living
anywhere. He’s like a Rastafarian. He’s married, he has a wife and little boy
in the Bronx, I think. Shenge’s bed used to be right by the front door so it
was like he was just yanked in off the street, it was so peculiar.
Got a cab and picked up PH to go to the Odeon to have dinner with our
Interview photographer Matthew Rolston and the Holland boy—he’s
Joanna Carson’s son—who PH just met in L.A. ($10). He was very good-
looking and I offered to make him a “First Impression” with Matthew doing
the photograph. Matthew said that when he shot Joan Rivers for Interview
she told him she used to be a photo stylist and worked for Cecil Beaton.
And Matthew wears brooches. He’s the one who started Michael Jackson
wearing them. When he photographed Michael for Interview he gave him
his own brooch and Michael then started wearing them all the time. But
Matthew must like women, because when he photographs them he makes
them look gorgeous (dinner $150).
Monday, September 17, 1984
Vincent picked up the small Truman Capote portraits that I’d done for New
York. When they saw them they said they’d thought I was going to do
something new, but I’d done them my usual way because that’s what I
thought they wanted. They’re going to pay a user’s fee. But I don’t know
about these low prices I get when I do stuff for magazines, because I think
of the time Carl Fischer took my picture for the New York cover for the
Philosophy book—I mean, he had a whole set built, and then he had eight
assistants or something, so look how much they probably spent on that. So I
got all worked up thinking about how cheaply I work, and it made me call
Vogue and ask them where the money they owe me was.
Keith told me that he rented a store for $1,500 across from the Puck
Building. So I guess he is a little like Peter Max. But then Peter Max never
did get in the good art collections that Keith’s in. And he said he won’t sell
his stuff to any other store, it’ll just be in his own store.
And Nick Rhodes buys art, but he doesn’t listen to anybody, and I told
him that it’s stupid not to, that it’s just like buying stocks. But he said, “I
just buy what I like.” And I remember Kaye Ballard saying the same thing
when she bought pictures twenty or thirty years ago and then couldn’t even
get back what she paid for them.
And Bruno had called earlier. These combined paintings of Jean Michel
and me and Clemente that he said were “just a curiosity that nobody would
want to buy” that he paid $20,000 for like fifteen pictures for, he’s now
selling for $40,000 or $60,000 apiece! Yes! And I have a funny feeling that
he’s actually giving Clemente more because I can’t see him doing this for
this little. And I should get more because I bring up the prices … oh but
well, Jean Michel got me into painting differently, so that’s a good thing.
Tuesday, September 18, 1984
I got home and watched Tyrone Power in Jesse James. And that’s really
looking at something. Maybe he couldn’t act, but gee.
Thursday, September 20, 1984
Well this was the day of big plans to see the chief crystal doctor who was in
town, Dr. Reese.
Cabbed ($3) there to 74th between Park and Madison. They make you
pay beforehand. And they give you your fifteen minutes and then get you
out fast. And so I went into the room and it was like Invasion of the Body
Snatchers. An old lady like in her sixties, pudgy and like a meat market guy,
and the doctor was a big guy like from Hick City. And the room was so
little. And they run their hand over you in funny places and say code letters,
you know, and they’ll say they’ve run into a “hole” or something like
“There’s a hole here escaping,” and they’ll say, “C85, 14, 15 D-23,
circumvent 18, 75 dash 4….” And then he said something and Dr. Bernsohn
said, “Oh he doesn’t have any feeling”—about me. And the doctor said to
me, “I’ll tell you about it next week,” after the other doctor said, “I didn’t
know I had such an extreme case.” But afterwards I wasn’t spaced-out or
anything. When we’d walked in, there was a guy in a daze. Afterwards
Benjamin and I we went to Fraser Morris and got lunch and ate it on the
ledge at the Whitney Museum, we didn’t even know it was the Pop Art
show inside.
And a woman came by and saw me eating chicken and said, “That’s a
no-no,” and she was right. I’m not supposed to eat meat. But I’m trying to
be more normal. I signed a lot of autographs. Then we went up to Vito
Giallo’s store and ran into Paloma Picasso, who’s just in town for a day, to
promote her perfume. She’s so skinny again, it’s incredible, and no lines.
Good newspaper headlines about Muhammad Ali having some disease. I
got them for the new Front Page paintings I want to do. And John Reinhold
called me yesterday morning and said that the Polish Institute next door to
me was being sold and that he’d gone to look at it—$2.7 million.
Then I went to Judy Green’s party at 555 Park.
Arlene Francis was there and her little husband Martin Gabel who’s still
alive who she has to push around like a toy.
C.Z. invited me to the memorial for Truman.
Saturday, September 22, 1984
Called Jon at Paramount and asked him to meet me at MOMA. Got in free
to the primitive art show where they have the old primitive stuff and the
new stuff beside it to show what had been taken from what. Then went to
see the Irving Penn show, and it was all the photographs that I remember so
well that were what made me come to New York in the first place. It was
fun to see them again, they weren’t anything so different, but… And I kept
thinking that I should have bought a camera when I first came to New York,
because photography was wide open, and if you could just do what was “as
good as” you could be big. I mean, you took a picture of a famous person
and how could you go wrong? I would be doing TV commercials today.
Things would’ve been different. It’s just something to think about. And
Irving Penn’s photos, it’s funny to see that the models were all older, like
thirty-five. He used his wife a lot—Lisa Fonssgrives. And I remember so
well that one photo where the things spill out of the girl’s purse and it’s
tranquilizer pills and things. The shows were wonderful.
And Steve Rubell asked if we wanted to see his new club-to-be. It’s the
Palladium Theater on 14th Street, that was originally the Academy of
Music. So he took us over there and it was, “Do you love it? Do you love
it?” And it’s huge. Some famous Japanese architect is doing it.
Sunday, September 23, 1984
Tried Jean Michel because he’d wanted to go to the Pop Art show at the
Whitney and then work together, but he wasn’t around. Jon and I went there
without him (tickets $5). I autographed a lot of the postcards they sell there,
people handed them to me. Of Marilyn and the others. I don’t think I get
any money from these. I had a fight with Fred because he wants me to sign
with a card company because he said that then that card company will stop
the other card companies from putting them out, but I don’t know if that’s
true.
Rauschenberg was the best in the show, somehow his stuff looks new. I
don’t know why. And Jasper Johns’s stuff was good, too. The Segal looked
good because it was big, but it was so ugly. The tires outside looked so
terrific that you thought the rest of the show would be on that scale or
something, but the Whitney is small. There’s some early stuff of mine, a lot
of mine. Jean Michel had told me he thought my stuff looked the best, but
you know …
So then wandered the streets, went home and Jean Michel called. Now
he has rooms in two hotels. One at the Ritz Carlton and then he moved to
the Mayfair Regent on 65th Street. I guess he was competing with me to
live in the chic East 60s. I told him that the TV was terrible around here and
he didn’t believe me, but when he got to the Mayfair and found out he
couldn’t get the Showtime channel or anything like that he learned his
lesson. Good TV means a lot. So he went back to the Ritz Carlton. He has a
big Jacuzzi there.
Monday, September 24, 1984
In the morning I rushed to Dr. Li (cab $4). Took some blood tests and she
threw it on my body, the blood. I’m now supposed to eat rice three times a
day, but I’m cheating, I’m eating rice crackers.
I have to go to Truman’s memorial. Afterwards there’s going to be a
party at C.Z. Guest’s. Steve Rubell had the best line, he said to me, “You
don’t go to mine, I won’t go to yours.” That’s the best deal. Jay’s going—I
guess he and Kate are back together.
I asked Paige if she wanted to go with me to Ahmet Ertegun’s party at
the Carlyle (cab $3). Ahmet was at the door. Same usual people—Jerry
Zipkin, Mica and Chessy. The lights were so low. Mrs. Buckley was there
and Charlotte Curtis, and Charlotte screamed at me, “Oh your eyebrows are
dyed!” So what could I say? “Yeah. They’re two-tone.” Charlotte always
looks so sour. But I do like her. She did those great columns in the sixties.
Paige was the youngest one there.
Tuesday, September 25, 1984
I forgot that while I was at Dr. Linda Li’s Roberta Flack came in and she
said, “Oh I saw you at St. Vincent’s church on Sunday.” She said she was
going to a Baptist church and just wandered into mine.
Wandered down Fifth Avenue.
Crazy Matty came by the office and Brigid got him to leave. He’s thin
again but he’s okay, not more crazy than usual—just normally crazy. I don’t
think he still has that girl living with him in his hotel room. Oh, but why is
it that crazy people can get boyfriends and girlfriends and normal people
can’t? Can you tell me?
I got invited to the Malcolm Forbes boat with Mrs. Marcos. I really want
to get her portrai before, you know, something happens over there. Fred
Leighton must be so glad when he hears she’s in town. She goes into his
jewelry store and drops millions of bucks. Worked till 7:00.
Wednesday, September 26, 1984
I was picked up by Benjamin and we walked out and right into the arms of
—Crazy Matty. We got a cab and he left and then two blocks later he came
up to our cab that was waiting at the light and he opened the front door—I’d
locked the back door—and he asked for money. So now he knows how to—
extort.
Thursday, September 27, 1984
Talked to Keith Haring who said he was depressed so he went to the
Whitney and that he saw the Pop Art show and saw my Dick Tracy and
loved it and I said it’d just been sold for $500,000 and he said that wasn’t
enough, that it was worth a million and that if he’d had a million he would
have bought it. That was sweet of him to say. And it was sweet to hear. Si
Newhouse bought it from Irving Blum.
Went to meet the Brants for dinner at Jams (cab $6). I told the guy we
wanted to be downstairs, but he put us upstairs again, but then later I saw
why—Robert Redford was right behind me, with maybe his wife and
daughter, I think. I didn’t say anything because that’s not cool, but when I
got home I happened to read an old Playboy interview with him and then I
decided I should have said hello because it turns out he’d tried to be a
painter at one point, and he talked about how he was a magazine art director
in the fifties in New York. I didn’t know any of that! So then he would
know about me.
Did I tell the Diary, by the way, that Mery Griffin turned down our TV
show? He did.
Saturday, September 29, 1984
Talked to Keith and Jean Michel. Wanted Jean Michel to come over and
paint, but he was giving his mother a birthday party so I went to meet him
and met his mother. She’s a nice-looking lady, a little matronly, but she
looked good. He sort of resents her, though—he said she’s been in and out
of mental hospitals and he felt neglected. But he doesn’t have to be
ashamed of her, she was really nice and everything. His father was a no-
show. They’re divorced and the father is living with another woman. He’s
an accountant.
And Jean Michel still keeps a room for $250 a day at the Ritz Carlton.
And that fifty-foot concrete table that he had Freddy the architect do up
special for the Great Jones place, it filled the whole room and Jean Michel
just broke it up into pieces. And I found out from Robert Laughlin who’s
next door to Freddy’s place that used to be Kenny Scharf’s, that when
Freddy moved into Kenny’s apartment there were just Kenny Scharf
paintings everywhere, all over the walls and Freddy painted them out! He
painted it all white! He didn’t even remove the doors that had paintings on
them, which would’ve been so easy to save!
Monday, October 1, 1984
It was so cold out. And what do you do when these pushy old broads shove
you out of the way and grab your taxi? Finally got a cab ($8) but the traffic
was so slow.
Oh, and all afternoon we were waiting for Stuart Pivar to call because
Michael Jackson was supposed to call him and come over to see
Bouguereaus. But Stuart went out for a minute and missed the call, but he
might come today. If this is real. Those Bouguereaus are now $2 million
apiece and Stuart has about four. They went up so suddenly. It’s funny,
they’re just the perfect paintings for Michael Jackson—like ten-year-old
boys with fairy wings, around beautiful women. And Stuart Pivar is really
into young bodies. That’s what he thinks keeps you young, is the hormones.
He wants seventeen-year-olds, but he can’t get them.
Tuesday, October 2, 1984
Jean Michel came over to the office to paint but he fell asleep on the floor.
He looked like a bum lying there. But I woke him up and he did two
masterpieces that were great.
Wednesday, October 3, 1984
Jean Michel called three or four times, he’d been taking smack. Bruno came
by and saw a painting that Jean Michel wasn’t finished with yet, and he
said, “I want it, I want it,” and so he gave him money and took it, and I felt
funny, because nobody’s done that for me in so long. That’s the way it used
to be.
I was going to the party on Malcolm Forbes’s boat for Imelda Marcos. It
was sort of embarrassing because I thought I was late but I was early. Most
of the people were so old and they were all from my street, East 66th Street
—I guess it must be the richest street in the world. Imelda lives on it
between Fifth and Madison. Lee Radziwill came. She looked good in a
short haircut. Imelda’s gotten a little too fat, though, so if I did her picture
I’d want to do it from the old days, when she was Miss Philippines in the
pageant. She was being a hostess and she sang, later on after dinner she
sang about twelve songs—“Feelings,” and then that song from the war, you
know, the oozy-doozy-bowsy-lowsy one. Oh, what is it? “Mares Eat Oats.”
Everybody said that once Imelda gets started partying you can’t stop her,
that she’s always the last to leave, and it was true, she was going strong.
Then cabbed to Mr. Chow’s where Jean Michel was having a birthday
party for this girl who’d talked him into having it for her. He had Diego
Cortez and Clemente and people and when I got there he was asleep,
snoring actually. We woke him up to pay the check, because I wasn’t going
to get this one.
Got home and I turned on the Letterman show and there was—Malcolm
Forbes! Talking about everything. And I thought, Gee, what a great name
for a magazine, Forbes. They just named it their name. And I started
thinking about a magazine called Warhol. (laughs) No no, I don’t love my
name so much. I always wanted to change it. When I was little I was going
to take “Morningstar,” Andy Morningstar. I thought it was so beautiful. And
I came so close to actually using it for my career. This was before the book,
Marjorie Morningstar. I just liked the name, it was my favorite.
Friday, October 5, 1984
Jean Michel came by. Worked all afternoon. Rupert came and he’s using the
back area now at 860 to collate the new prints. The Details. I hate them.
Like details of the Botticelli “Venus.” But people are loving these best. It
makes you wonder. Like they loved the James Dean cover for the David
Dalton book that I did. They’re buying it in prints.
Sunday, October 7, 1984
It was a beautiful day. Talked to Jean Michel and he wanted to go to work,
so we planned to meet at 860. I went to church and then there were no cabs,
so I wound up walking halfway to the office (cab $3.75). I let Jean Michel
in downstairs. He did a painting in the dark, which was great. This was the
day of Susan Blond’s wedding to Roger Erickson, and the thing was at the
Café Luxembourg and I didn’t want to take Jean Michel home with me to
pick a painting up for a present, so we both made her a painting there. Jean
Michel is so difficult, you never know what kind of mood he’ll be in, what
he’ll be on. He gets really paranoid and says, “You’re just using me, you’re
just using me,” and then he’ll get guilty for getting paranoid and he’ll do
everything so nice to try to make up for it. But then I can’t decide what he
has fun doing, either. Like when we got to Susan’s he didn’t like it, I don’t
know if it’s because of the drugs or because he hates crowds or because he
thinks it’s boring. And I tell him that as he becomes more and more famous
he’ll have to do more and more of these things (cab $10).
I met Roger’s mother and she looks and acts just like Susan. Jonathan
Roberts flew in from California and I asked him why he bothered. I said,
“Just because you had a date once with Susan?”
Danny Fields was the best man, he gave a little speech. And Steve
Rubell was there and he wasn’t that friendly. I mean, he was really friendly,
but sometimes he’s really really really friendly. So he wasn’t friendly
enough.
A woman at the party was from Los Angeles and she was complaining
about a table she bought from Ronnie Levin and saying that he took the
money and didn’t get her the table, and so she called his mother, and the
mother said that Ronnie’s disappeared. I asked PH about it and she said it’s
serious, that nobody’s heard from him for weeks, and that with his big
mouth, if he were alive, he wouldve called someone by now.
Monday, October 8, 1984
Picked up Jean Michel and he has people ringing his bell every fifteen
seconds, it reminded me of the old Factory. He says things like, “Listen
man, why don’t you call before you come over.” A guy he’d given fun
drawings to once when he was needing a place to stay sold them now for a
fortune—$ 5,000 or something. So Jean Michel’s finding out how you have
to be a business, how it all stops being just fun, and then you wonder, What
is art? Does it really come out of you or is it a product? It’s complicated.
Oh, I forgot to say that Dr. Rossi’s kid who’s just out of Yale wants to do
videos and so I’m sending him to talk to Vincent. Dr. Rossi’s the doctor that
saved my life in ‘68 when I was shot.
Tuesday, October 9, 1984
I made up some things for Sean Lennon’s birthday and the painting was still
wet—a little heart candy-box that said “I love you”—and I also brought a
“paint brush” that instead of bristles had strips of red colored paper in a
stack. And a bracelet I’d made out of pennies. PH picked me up and we
went to the Dakota (cab $6.50). There were fans outside in honor of the day
still on the “vigil.” Because the ninth is Sean and John’s birthday. Inside
Yoko’s door everybody had taken their shoes off so there was a line of
shoes. I wouldn’t take mine off, though, and I didn’t want PH to, either, so
that I wouldn’t be alone. PH said that when she went to the Royal Palace
once in Hawaii that the tour guides gave you booties to put over your shoes
and that would be a better way to keep the house clean, I think. So then
when we heard a glass drop and break, that was our excuse—that we didn’t
want to be in our socks when there might be glass. Yoko ran to call Sean
and he came in and said, “Did you bring my dollar?” Yoko said that he’d
been remembering and wanting the other half of the dollar I tore in half the
last time. So I gave him a whole bunch of torn bills that I’d brought for him
and he went off to try to find the match to the half he had. Keith was there
and he brought Kenny Scharf as his date. Walter Cronkite was there, and
John Cage and Louise Nevelson and Lisa Robinson.
On purpose for fun I had spelled Sean’s name “Shawn” on a couple of
his gifts, and so when Sean autographed napkins for me he signed it that
way, too. He was wearing Michael Jackson-type gloves, but on both hands,
that his friend little Max Leroy, Warner Leroy’s son, had given him.
Michael Jackson is his favorite singer. He said he likes Prince, too, and he
must like Boy George, too, because later on his computer he did a drawing
of Boy George. Sean and Keith hit it off. Keith is very good playing with
kids—he was playing really well with another baby that was there, too,
coming after her with a stuffed animal. Sean sat between me and Roberta
Flack.
The cake was a big blond grand piano. Sean was the one who had the
idea that it should be a piano. He has a piano in his bedroom. And he cut the
cake. Harry Nilsson led everyone singing “For He’s a Jolly Good Fellow,”
and later Sean made a really nice speech and said that if his father were
there we’d be singing ‘Tor They’re Jolly Good Fellows”
After dinner Yoko and Sean and some of the people went over to the
WNEW broadcast that they were originally going to do inside the building,
but at the last minute the Dakota wouldn’t let them. But most of the people
stayed behind. We went into Sean’s bedroom—and there was a kid there
setting up the Apple computer that Sean had gotten as a present, the
Macintosh model. I said that once some man had been calling me a lot
wanting to give me one, but that I’d never called him back or something,
and then the kid looked up and said, “Yeah, that was me. I’m Steve Jobs.”
And he looked so young, like a college guy. And he told me that he would
still send me one now. And then he gave me a lesson on drawing with it. It
only comes in black and white now, but they’ll make it soon in color. And
then Keith and Kenny used it. Keith had already used it once to make a T-
shirt, but Kenny was using it for the first time, and I felt so old and out of it
with this young whiz guy right there who’d helped invent it.
Sean’s bedroom had two mattresses on the floor and lots of Beatles
pictures and the big Rupert Smith picture of Yoko on the wall. There was
wrapping paper and presents all over the floor, and lots of robot toys on the
shelves.
After we left I was so blue because before I was Sean’s best grownup
friend and now I think Keith is. They really hit it off. He invited Keith to his
party for kids the next day and I don’t think I was invited and I’m hurt.
Saturday, October 13, 1984
Got up early and it was nice out. Jay’s back with Kate Harrington and he’s
too happily married to go to work, too. Benjamin’s too happily married to
go to work. So I went alone ($6). The only person who was called was
Michael Walsh, the kid from Newport who wants me to look at his work.
Worked till 8:00 all alone. Went uptown ($6).
Cabbed to Mick and Jerry’s for dinner on West 81st Street (cab $4).
There were three butch bodyguards outside. Jack Nicholson was there, and
he’s into Bouguereau now—he has all these Remingtons and now he’s
buying Bouguereaus.
The baby wasn’t there. Jerry’s sister Rosy was, and she had her two tits
almost popping out, which is so odd, because I don’t know why she would
dress like that when she has this big butch sexy great husband. And I talked
to Wendy Stark and she had three pictures of her kid, so it looked like
triplets. Whoopi Goldberg came and the Garfunkel guy was there and Mike
Nichols. Tina Chow was in the kitchen with the food, they’d done it. And I
approached Jack Nicholson about being in the Jackson Pollock story that
PH and I are now thinking of buying the book rights to from Ruth Kligman,
and then Fred came up and said it was a terrible idea, that Ruth Kligman
was another Crazy Matty, and so Jack said, “Well I’ll let you two movie
moguls fight it out.” Jack was wearing a suit that he’d had made in London
that made him look like a box.
Mick was drunk and really friendly, came over and hugged me a few
times. I was sort of glad that I didn’t bring Cornelia, because she’d be “a
threat” to Jerry. I was surprised to see Whitney Tower there because Jerry
always accused him of getting girls for Mick. There was a whole other
room with more stars in it.
Monday, October 15, 1984
I had an appointment with Dr. Linda Li. I was fifteen minutes late and so I
had to wait. She told me that I was allergic to potatoes, and I don’t know if
she’s magic or if she smelled them, because I had had some. And she told
me not to eat them for a while, the white ones. Left there (phone $2,
newspapers $3).
After work I went with Jean Michel to finally check out of his hotel
room at the Ritz Carlton, but when we got there he decided it was too
beautiful to leave.
Tuesday, October 16, 1984
Jackie Curtis called and said that Alice Neel died. I’d been meaning to call
her for a while. She was a sweet old lady. I guess she was old enough,
though, in her eighties, I think. It seems like I just saw her on the Johnny
Carson show. Jackie wants to take an ad in Interview for a play he’s
opening, but how can we trust him to pay?
Jean Michel, me, John Sex, and Fab Five Freddy cabbed uptown to the
Lyceum and the Whoopi Goldberg show ($8). We were late and in the
second row. Whoopi was great, for one and a half hours just a blank stage
but she held your interest. She’s really intelligent and everything. She does
a thing where she asks for quarters from the audience, but then she didn’t
give them back. So when it was over and we went back to see her she said
that she usually gives them back—I asked her—but that a guy had given her
a dollar bill and that threw her off, and now she had about $4 and so she
might just now give the money to a Catholic charity. She really liked Jean
Michel and I invited her to dinner, but she said she had cramps or
something.
Wednesday, October 17, 1984
Our lawyer, Risa Dickstein, was on the cover of the Post, because she’s the
lawyer for the Mayflower Madam, so that shows you what kind of a lawyer
we’re so fortunate enough to have.
Then Gloria von Thurn und Taxis, the fairy princess, came to the office
for lunch with her husband, the fifty-eight-year-old fairy prince that she
married when she was twenty or something and got on the cover of every
German magazine because he’s the billionaire who needed kids for heirs.
And now they have three kids. And Betsy Bloomingdale was there, too.
Prince Johannes von Thurn und Taxis started some dirty talking. He said
that when he was young and he went to Hollywood and met Marilyn
Monroe that she came on to him and invited him over for dinner, but he said
he wasn’t into women then—he said this out loud. They talk like that. And
the wife talks about boys, and then he talks about boys with big cocks. It’s
very abstract. So anyway, he said that he asked Marilyn Monroe who else
was going to be there and she said a few names, and he arrives and Marilyn
comes out in a décolleté negligee and he said, “Where are the other
people?” and she said, “They all cancelled.” So they had pink champagne
and then dinner and then she pulled a little string and she was standing there
stark naked and he couldn’t … so he said he just banged her on the
knockers and said, “See you later, toots.” He said that he could’ve
pretended and they could’ve just wrapped themselves around each other,
but that—he repeated it again—he wasn’t into women then. She must’ve
known how rich he was. Or else maybe he was good-looking. Because he
did also say that Pablo Picasso once saw him and wanted to do his portrait,
and said he’d do two and give him one, but he thought it was just some old
guy after his body. This was on the beach. But I don’t know if his stories are
true. They probably are, but he remembers some things about me that I
don’t, so … Like he says he once invited me out and that I said I was sick
and that then he called me at home and I wasn’t there, but I know I never
gave him my home phone number.
And then I walked them to their limos and Gloria wanted a cock drawn
on her Interview. And Fred said this was our first society party in the new
building. But it would’ve been great in the ballroom. But it’s leaking up
there. And Fred had tables built on the roof! I don’t know why. And his
little dining room is nice, but it’s not the same.
Monday, October 22, 1984
Went to the new offices and met the construction person that Vincent and
Fred are liking so much. I got mad at him when I heard that it was going to
be $100,000 for a terrace on the roof, and I just said, “We want just a plain
old roof.” And I laughed in his face when he told me it would be done by
Christmas. Oh sure. I’ll have to think about this.
Rupert said that his apartment was robbed so not to get upset if those
unsigned prints start showing up at auction. But then the police called and
said they’d gotten some things back.
Worked till 7:30.
Cabbed home ($6) and glued then went to dinner at the Sacklers’ on
Park Avenue and it was for Princess Michael of Kent. And you were
supposed to get there before she arrived but I was late. It was dinner for
only eight people. And there was a lady stuck in the bathroom and everyone
ignored her for half an hour and when she got out she accused Jill of
hearing her and not doing anything, and Jill said she hadn’t, but I mean, J
heard her, so …
Friday, October 26, 1984
Victor came by. Halston’s working at home now.
Julian Schnabel was having a birthday party at Mr. Chow’s and invited
me but Jean Michel and I didn’t want to call him back because we knew he
wanted to come and see what we were working on. Worked till 7:50 (cab
$6). John Lurie who starred in Stranger Than Paradise came over and we
had champagne and that was a mistake. Dropped him at 12:30 (cab $7).
Saturday, October 27, 1984
Kate’s picture was big in part one of the Truman Capote article in New York
magazine, and part two is about to come out so I’m wondering if it’s going
to say how she’s actually the daughter of the old boyfriend, Jack O’Shea.
Monday, October 29, 1984
This was the day of the New York marathon, and it was hot and humid so
the runners had a bad time. One man from France died—the first one to die
in the marathon. And the girl who won was pooping in her pants, she had
diarrhea, and they tried to brush over it, but they said, “She’s tugging at her
pants again.”
Kenny Scharf called and invited me out for a ride in his Cadillac that he
drove here from LA and painted. Now he’s got champagne glasses and
monsters on it. He and Keith came along and the car looked like really
something and the police were in back of them because they were just
curious, like everybody else. So we drove uptown to 90th Street and East
River Drive to see the mural that Keith had done. It’s like 2½’ wide X 200’
long, like three blocks long. He painted it white and sprayed little black and
red figures, but it would’ve been better just silver. It doesn’t make the city
look better, really.
Halston called and invited me to dinner at his house where Jack and
Anjelica and Steve Rubell and Alana were going to be, and Bianca, and I
said sure and watched TV and then at 9:00 walked over there. Ann Turkel
who was married to Richard Harris was there. Bianca was kissing her
boyfriend as if she were Jade or something, in front of Alana, who was
talking about money settlements. These girls. It’s so strange, like over the
hill, talking about “settlements.” Bianca was putting down Alana’s house in
L.A. and saying it was so trashy and in the worst taste and she and Alana
almost had a fistfight. They’re friends.
And the big person at the party was Peter Wolf and I told him how all
the girls were so crazy about him, they love him in his music video. Dinner
was good. Halston’s hair is receding a little. His house doesn’t have the flair
that it had when Victor lived there.
Tuesday, October 30, 1984
Ferraro was on the news. I was liking her a lot in the beginning, but now
she’s more like all the rest of them, like mechanical.
Jean Michel was in bed with some new girl and didn’t show up. Bruno
arrived and surprised us. And his wife—Yoyo. And they looked at the big
paintings that Jean Michel has been doing silkscreens on, and they had a
sour look, they said it ruined his “intuitive primitivism.” But he’d always
Xeroxed before and nobody knew, it just looked like new drawings, and put
on with that stuff. Worked till 7:30.
Then there was a party for Van Johnson at Limelight. When we got there
he was leaving already. It was a party he was giving for Janet Leigh. And he
was such a camp. He said, “Oh, I’ve been dying to meet you forever!” He
seems like a big boozer. I guess there weren’t enough cute boys in there.
Then in the middle of the room was a shower and a girl in it and blood all
over and a guy like Tony Perkins in a grandmother’s outfit. And in the
middle of all this was the real Janet Leigh in a blue sequined dress.
Wednesday, October 31, 1984
Bruno just called—at the Christie’s auction Jean Michel’s painting went for
$20,000. I think he’s going to be the Big Black Painter. It was one of his
sort of big paintings. I think Jean Michel’s early stuff is sort of better,
because then he was just painting, and now he has to think about stuff to
paint to sell. And how many screaming Negroes can you do? Well, I guess
you can do them forever, but … And he bought a $700 mask for Halloween
yesterday. Mexican. He just spends money. He did give up the room at the
Ritz Carlton and he doesn’t take limos now, so that’s an improvement. But
what he should do—and I’ve told him this—is keep his early paintings and
store them so that he’ll have them to sell later on. Because Bruno just buys
up everything and then sells them off slowly. But Jean Michel really should
be keeping them for a nest egg. The paintings that get good prices are
Rauschenberg’s early pieces and anything by Jasper and Cy Twombly.
Wesselmann’s sort of selling off … Rosenquist’s prices are just medium,
but I think he’s the best, I really do.
I guess I’m going to finally face moving out of 860 because Stephen
Sprouse has rented the place.
Glued myself together, picked up Gael, and we walked to Jams to meet
Fred. And this dinner was really horrible. It was just me complaining. I
should’ve been like a cheerleader, saying, “What can we do to make our
magazine even better than the wonderful thing it is?” But it didn’t turn out
that way. Gael was explaining the printing costs. And really, I should have
been positive. I know that you get more out of people by encouraging them.
Although I did encourage someone once—Chris Makos. And what I got out
of that is that this week they’re auctioning off a picture of me in drag from
the ones he took. And Gael wasn’t eating so I thought it was because I’d
made her upset, but it turned out that she was just trying to diet because
she’s gotten really fat. But she just rubs me the wrong way—she thinks
she’s so great or something. We just don’t communicate. I don’t know if
she’s stupid or if she just plays dumb so she won’t have to do what you’re
telling her to do (dinner $140).
Then we talked about the covers, when would be the Mick, when the
Health issue, when Mickey Rourke. It was just a very frustrating dinner,
nothing was accomplished, just arguing. It was all my fault. We all
would’ve been better off going to a Halloween party. Fred walked us both
home.
Thursday, November 1, 1984
Julian Schnabel called and said he was coming by with that rock person,
Captain Beefheart. And we didn’t want him to, and then I got worried that
Julian might have heard what I’d been saying about him—that he goes
around to other artists’ studios to find things to copy.
I had to leave early to see Christophe de Menil’s first fashion show.
She’s becoming a clothes designer (cab $8). Went to 79th and Fifth, the
French consulate. And the dresses were all just linen and the sleeves were
like folded napkins, a 1914-style look. Funny sleeves. I don’t know why she
would want to go into the dress business—it’s not like she has a “statement”
to make. Bianca was there and Steve Rubell told me that the reason she
didn’t want anyone at the birthday party she gave for Jade was because
Jade’s gotten chubby. So I slipped out (cab $4).
Then Cornelia and I walked over to the Pierre for the ASPCA benefit
thing. I talked to C.Z. Guest and she said that Truman got her out of being
just a housewife and showed her that she Á ] O could do things. And she
said that she never told Truman anything personal, but I mean, we were
standing there for five minutes and she told me every personal thing you
could think of about her family … I mean you’d bring up drinking, and
she’s saying, “I lived with a drunk for years, so I know.”
Friday, November 2, 1984
Worked till 7:00. Then there was an opening of Schnabel. So went to it (cab
$6). I was putting his painting down, being funny, and then I saw he was
next to me but I don’t think he heard me. There were a lot of plates on the
wall. Schnabel said that he was a short-order cook at Mickey Ruskin’s
restaurant on University Place for a while. Gee, poor Mickey. Nobody even
mentions him now. He’s just forgotten. The show was interesting but I had
to leave because Cornelia was picking me up for the horse show.
Sunday, November 4, 1984
Went to meet Alba Clemente, the beautiful wife of Francesco Clemente at
their loft in the Tower Records building. She studied acting, she has a great
laugh, and she’s rich. They live in India six months a year. That’s why his
paintings look the way they do, I guess. Then we went to the Odeon (cab
$10). It was fun, we chit-chatted about art. There were big silences, though.
Jean Michel is so hard to talk to. His thing is he’s in love with waitresses, so
he gets quiet and watches them. Alba said that her girl who was minding the
children had a crush on him (lunch $90). And then we went back to her
place so that Jean Michel could meet the girl, Monica, but she’d taken the
kids out. And then Jean Michel was getting inspired from seeing Clemente’s
work and wanted to go do some painting himself.
So we went to the studio (cab $3.50) and worked two hours. Jean Michel
was painting back in the images he’d painted out when he was on smack
and he came up with some masterpieces. Then he called the girl, Monica,
and invited her to dinner. She wanted to go to the Lone Star because her
semi-boyfriend who’s Schnabel’s assistant was going to be there, but Jean
Michel didn’t want to go there because he was afraid if there was
competition that he would lose the fuck.
Tuesday, November 6, 1984—New York—
Washington, D.C.
Election Day. It was the worst start imaginable. I was up at 7:00, ready at
8:00. I called Fred and he was just out of it. It drove me crazy. He was
rambling. Maybe he’d just slept for fifteen minutes, I don’t know.
Anyway, an hour later we were in Washington. Went to the Madison
Hotel. Princess Elizabeth of Yugoslavia came with us. Her daughter,
Catherine Oxenberg, starts on Dynasty next week and she was coming
down later. And then some of the people went off to the White House but
we weren’t invited so we stayed in our rooms.
So we ordered lunch and that was expensive. Jean Michel ordered a ‘66
Château Latour wine for $200 (lunch $500). Then we limoed to the
Sequoia, the presidential yacht, and it was cold and miserable and getting
dark. Same old people. Peter Max and his girlfriend, who’s so beautiful, tall
and Texan, and I don’t know why she’s with him. She was at the beginning
and ending of Heaven’s Gate. A top model, I forget her name. I talked to
Chip Carter while I was there.
Then we went back to the hotel and Jean Michel rolled a joint. Then we
ordered dinner, which was disgusting (tip $5). Fred didn’t realize that he
had only yellow socks and brown shoes, so he couldn’t wear his black suit.
Entertainment Tonight got me on the way in and asked me who I voted for
and I said, “For the winner,” and they said, “Who’s that?” and I said, “The
winner is the winner.” I don’t even know what I meant. If they ever put all
the clips they’ve ever gotten of me together they’d see that I’m a moron and
finally stop asking me questions.
I took pictures of Melvin Laird dancing. Jean Michel was so hard to deal
with, he gets so paranoid. This was a “Non-partisan Party” that the
Weismans were having because at the last election they gave a party for the
Democrats and this time everybody was a Democrat but pretending to be a
Republican.
Wednesday, November 7, 1984— Washington,
D.C.—New York
I called Jean Michel’s room and said we’d be leaving in one second. And I
went into his room and photographed him getting out of bed with a hard-on.
And then he began rolling a joint. Jean Michel ordered a whole meal but it
never came. Cabbed to the airport ($20).
Jean Michel and I went to the back of the plane and he was smoking
joints, and I realized that he’d left his brand-new Comme des Garçons coat
in the hotel room when he’d been rolling, and he called and I called but
they’ll never send it. He knows just what looks good on him. He’s 6’ —or
6’1” with his hair. He’s really big.
Got a cab into Manhattan ($22). Then went to 33rd Street and sat in my
room and made phone calls. The boiler was broken and it was freezing in
there. And I want to take the key away from those two bathrooms outside
my office because every other minute somebody’s going in and out and I
can’t stand it, the constant production of peeing all day. I’m going to make
the Interview kids go upstairs to one of those bathrooms or something,
because who wants to hear that all day.
I went to Private Eyes (cab $7). Scott was at the door, so he let us right
in. Madonna was on the platform and since Jean Michel had once been
involved with her, we started to go up, and the bouncer said, “Step aside for
Mr. Warhol,” and then tried to block Jean Michel and I said that it was okay,
he was with me. And Madonna kissed Jean Michel on the mouth but she
was with Jellybean, who said he’d heard his pictures in Interview made him
look 6’ tall so he was thrilled because he’s 2’. And Jean Michel was moody
because Madonna got so big and he’d lost her. And Dianne Brill tried to get
on the platform and the guy just pushed her back and I said, “Don’t you
know who that is? It’s Dianne Brill,” but he still wouldn’t let her up. And
she was so conspicuous in her rubber outfit and Frederick’s of Hollywood
stuff and everything, so she was really humiliated and that’s the way things
go—you think you have so much pizzazz and then something like that
happens in front of your friends. It’s happened to me. Sometime,
someplace, it happens to everybody. And I told her I’d talk to the P.R. girl
but she said no, that it was okay.
Thursday, November 8, 1984
Went to Diane Von Furstenberg’s and in the same little room were Bianca
and her boyfriend, and Mick and Jerry and her two sisters, and everybody
was trying to stand with their backs to each other. And so finally to break
the ice Bianca went over to Mick and said, “Oh, you’ve slept with
everybody in this room,” and she was giggling, and he said, “Oh yes, why
look! There’s Mark Shand! And Andy Warhol! I’ve had them all!” He was
funny.
Marina Schiano was there and Jean Michel asked me if she was a drag
queen. And Annina Nosei was there. She had a gallery in Soho and Jean
Michel used to do paintings in her basement. She would bring people down
to look at him like an attraction and he would yell, “Get the fuck out of
here!” He destroyed twenty paintings once, he ripped them off the walls.
And after she reminded him of all these old days he felt funny being at this
chic uptown place. He’s not happier now that he’s uptown because it’s all
before him now and he doesn’t know what to do. I told him, “Look, those
tantrums weren’t real anyway.” He’s confused. Stayed till 11:30.
Monday, November 12, 1984
Went to see Stranger Than Paradise. It isn’t good.
Oh and the day had started out with Eugenia Sheppard dying of cancer.
She invented fashion and gossip together. I guess she started in 195 5. Is
that when Princess Grace got married?
Wednesday, November 14, 1984
Went to Dr. Karen Burke’s new office on 94th and Park and had my
collagen treatment and it really, really hurt. There’s supposed to be
novocaine in the stuff as it goes in but it doesn’t feel like there is. There
must be a way to have this done without pain. The last time I had it done
was a year ago. Fred said he screamed in pain while he was having his face
done. I mean, there’s a thousand needles sticking in your face.
Cabbed to Mr. Chow’s for Jean Michel’s party ($7). And it was great. I
feel like I wasted two years running around with Christopher and Peter, just
kids who talk about the Baths and things, when here, now, I’m going
around with Jean Michel and we’re getting so much art work done, and then
his party was Schnabel and Wim Wenders and Jim Jarmusch who directed
Stranger Than Paradise and Clemente and John Waite who sang that great
song, ‘’Missing You.” I mean, being with a creative crowd, you really
notice the difference. It’s intriguing both ways, and I guess both ways are
right, but …
And now Chris is thanking me for not using him anymore to print up my
photographs, because he says it’s made him hustle more and work harder.
And Bianca who I’d invited called and wasn’t coming and then was
coming, and finally she arrived, and she acted grand as if she wasn’t
looking for movie work. She changed her seat and took Alba’s when Alba
went to the ladies room and when she came back Alba said in a voice loud
enough for Bianca to hear, “She’s taken my place again” meaning like with
her husband Clemente, but it seemed from how they were acting here like
Bianca and Francesco didn’t know each other.
And Jean Michel became the hostess with the mostest last night. He said
it cost him $12,000 —the Cristal was flowing.
Thursday, November 15, 1984
Vincent said I had a big video shoot to do and I said that my face was still
all marked up from the collagen thing the day before and he promised that
he wouldn’t shoot my face.
There were a lot of parties this night but Dustin Hoffman called and said
he’d left tickets for Death of a Salesman so Benjamin and I got to the
theater and met Jean Michel there at 7:58. At intermission the people behind
us tapped Jean Michel and asked if I was really who I was. Dustin was
actually good, but the play is so old-fashioned. I’d seen it years ago with
Lee J. Cobb and Mildred Dunnock, and they were more like real old people.
And afterwards we went backstage and there was coffee and everything
and Dustin was really up up up, he was camping and screaming, “Andy
Warhol is here! Andy Warhol is here!” And he came over and told us this
story about seeing a girl at Sotheby’s who was exactly like the first girl he
ever fucked, and he invited her to the show and then on that exact same
night, the first girl he ever fucked that she looked exactly like came to see
the play. And he took the two of them to dinner and they got to talking and
one said she didn’t have a place to stay and the other said she could stay
with her and they went off into the sunset together. They still looked alike,
he said. And Dustin has a sidekick who writes everything down. He’s
collecting art and wrote down Jean Michel’s number, and when I saw his
hair and everything shaved off, I don’t know why he does the play in so
much makeup when he could just do it straight. And he told me that one day
when he saw me on the street and we talked it was the day he’d broken up
with his first wife, which I didn’t know then, and he remembered every
word of our conversation because it was such a traumatic day for him.
Friday, November 16, 1984
Lucio Amelio wanted me to hear an opera singer singing falsetto and so
they came to the office and the guy sang and I thought it was supposed to be
comedy—it was like the castrati singing— but when I started to say how
funny it was Fred kicked me. And this boy is very good-looking, he’s
supposed to be straight. We were all stunned. It was like the old days at the
old Factory when once in a while somebody with real actual talent would
shock everybody with it.
Saturday, November 17, 1984
Got to the office by 12:00 (supplies $11.96, $3.50, $4.20).
Cabbed downtown to Keith’s ($5). Madonna arrived with a black wig
on. Downstairs there were three limos and we went out to see the “Greener
Pastures” thing at BAM in Brooklyn. Keith had done the sets and Willi
Smith did the clothes. I was next to Stephen Sprouse and he’s so hard to
talk to, but I’m just crazy about him, he’s adorable. And we were all
wearing Stephen Sprouse. It was really a great show. And they had really
good hair in the show. Like brown underneath and red on top and they used
twine. I talked to Stephen about doing show-biz stuff. Then that was over.
We went to Mr. Chow’s for dinner. Then we went to Area and saw Keith
make dresses on John Sex. I asked Madonna if she would be interested in
doing a movie and she was smart, she said that she wanted more specifics,
that she just didn’t want to talk and have her ideas taken. She’s very sharp.
She’s really hot right now. Stayed till 3:00, too many people coming up to
me to talk (cab $8).
Tuesday, November 20, 1984
We went to the perfume department at Bloomingdale’s and this old lady
next to me kept saying, “I’m standing next to him. I never dreamed it would
happen. I’m standing next to him.” And I didn’t even have an Interview left
to give her, I’d given them all out. We left and I told Benjamin I’d had my
fame fix for the day. We went to 47th Street and got hustled into some silver
junk. Benjamin got a piece himself, actually—it’s only the second time
that’s happened. He saw it and wanted it first. I should have gotten it for
him but it was too awkward. I remember when I was with John Lennon and
he was buying thousands of dollars’ worth of clothes and didn’t say, “Do
you want a shirt?” Years ago. And I’ve found more Polaroids of him and
Yoko Ono, only I did that thing that Brigid did, I glued them onto wood and
they wrinkled.
Vincent just called and said there’s a picture of me—of the robot—in
People. The dummy that’s going to star in the Evening with Andy Warhol.
They’re getting an awful lot of mileage out of nothing yet.
Thursday, November 22, 1984
Thanksgiving. Went to see Boy George at the Garden with Jean Michel and
Cornelia. I just couldn’t like him because it reminded me of what Jackie
Curtis could have been, but Jean Michel really liked him. Boy George is so
fat.
And then Jean Michel started remembering Halston’s last Thanksgiving
for turkey and wanted to get there, so we left (cab $6).
The turkey was already put away and dessert was out. Bianca started
punching Jean Michel and me really hard, I actually got a black and blue
mark. She was screaming about how we had to contribute to the Brooklyn
Academy of Music. And I mean, this cheapo—this cunt! Why should she be
asking artists when she should be out whoring herself to get money from
rich people! Who does she think she is! I mean, she thinks she knows all
about artists, and she knows—shit! She puts on this serious face and
interviews them and she thinks something’s happening, I mean … She’s
like a teenager, too, with this boyfriend, Glenn Dubin—she’s always
rubbing up against him and kissing him. I can’t figure out what she’s using
him for. Maybe just a place to stay.
Sunday, November 25, 1984
The big call of the day was from Nelson Lyon, and the news with Nelson is
that he’s engaged to Barbara Steele now. She’s not an actress anymore,
she’s a producer. And he said he’s so humiliated and embarrassed by all the
stuff about him in the Belushi book, Wired, that he can’t face anybody. I
told him nobody cares, that it’s chic to be in it and to forget about it.
They’re selling Halston’s floor in the Olympic Tower out from under
him. It’s so sad. Where did Halston go so wrong when he sold his name?
What should he have done that he didn’t? That’s what I want to know. And I
want to know it from him, I want to sit down and find out what I should do
if I ever sell myself. Find out when and where he made his mistakes. In case
I ever want to let a big corporation buy me out and just be a figurehead.
Because there’s got to be a way to do it where you don’t lose all your power
the way Halston did.
Monday, November 26, 1984
Dr. Linda Li can’t find out what’s causing my allergies. She said my spleen
was traumatized fifteen years ago.
Had a talk with the Harper & Row editor, Craig Nelson, and had to tell
him what I thought of what he’d written for the America book: He can’t
write.
Wednesday, November 28, 1984
Did the East Side with Benjamin. Passed out the Christmas issue. Went to
Dr. Bernsohn and he said he and Dr. Reese went to the pyramids and that he
threw these big crystal balls around that he’d taken with him. I went to see
him to get rid of a cold and then (laughs) he had one, too (cabs $4, $5, $5).
I went to Regine’s for Cornelia’s birthday. Barry Landau was there.
Barry’s as bad as Cornelia for attracting sleazes. And I guess that means me
because I’m right in there. But Cornelia’s smart, she sat Marty Bregman
next to her and Roy Cohn on the other side. I sat next to the guy who gives
the after-hours party in Aspen after the Jimmy Buffett party. And for a
present to Cornelia he offered her his credit card for a couple of hours.
Thursday, November 29, 1984
Jean Michel came in and painted right on top of the beautiful painting that
Clemente did. There was lots of blank space on it that he could’ve painted
on, he was just being mean. And he was in slow motion so I guess he was
on heroin. He’d bend over to fix his shoelace and he’d be in that position
for five minutes.
Friday, November 30, 1984
It was final moving hell day, leaving 860 Broadway forever. Stephen
Sprouse’s friend came for the keys and I asked if I could stay and paint, and
so I did, until 8:30. And Stephen Sprouse called and thanked me for the air
conditioners we’re leaving in the windows for him. So then Jay dropped me
off and I just stayed home, exhausted.
Saturday, December 1, 1984
Picked up Jon and cabbed down to the Tony Shafrazi Gallery for Kenny
Scharf’s show ($8). The blond kid who tells people he’s my lover was there.
And the kid told me that he’s the one who’s been planting flowers outside
my house. I pretended that I didn’t even know anybody was putting them
in, but I’ve seen him there. And Kenny’s paintings are now going for
$30,000 and so Keith felt funny because they’re both with Tony’s gallery,
but Keith’s never wanted his prices to be too high. His go for eight, ten,
fifteen.
Then afterwards there was a dinner for Kenny at Area. The new theme
over there is “Religion,” they’re trying to take over the Limelight theme.
And the front page of the Sunday Times “Arts and Leisure” section is
plastered with Schnabel, Grace Glueck calling him better than Pollock.
The dinner was fun. Kenny sold all his pictures. Then I went to the
dance floor and toured, saw the burning crosses and things. Benjamin’s
friend Bernard was St. Sebastian. Keith and Kenny were going to do more
work on their article for Interview. Gael told me she took out the part where
Kenny asked Keith if it was true he went to bed with Chris Makos in order
(laughs) to meet me.
Sunday, December 2, 1984
And I forgot to say that on Friday, Sean Lennon sent down the tablecloth
from his birthday party in October for a souvenir. Maybe he wants a
Christmas present. What can I get him? I was so disappointed when his
song didn’t make it to the top ten—I thought it would.
Monday, December 3, 1984
It was the first day of going to the new building for a full day’s work. No
more Union Square. It’s going to be hard to get cabs in the new area. I’m
taking that whole big floor up there. And it was great to see Brigid frazzled,
not knowing what phone buttons to push, really working finally—not
knitting. I’ll miss ordering out from Brownies, all the carrot juices and stuff.
What’re we going to do for food in this new neighborhood? I’ve only seen
greasy coffee shops.
Jean Michel had a date with Paige last night and I think they made it
again, which would be a mistake.
And I was just on the phone talking to Gael, there’s a thief at Interview
—$20 was stolen from petty cash. I should do that, it’s an easy way to make
money. Just go into Brigid’s wallet and take money out.
Julian Schnabel called and said that Arne Glimcher has “an empty spot”
for Jean Michel and me at the Pace Gallery. I mean, poor Leo. Everybody’s
trying to get us away from Leo.
Wednesday, December 5, 1984
The Boston Museum came and looked at 100 pictures and then offered half
of the asking price for one.
Waited till 7:00 for the nighttime armed guard that we hired while the
building’s still under construction. Worked on ideas, sorted through the
mail. Left, couldn’t get a cab until I’d walked a long time. I think I may just
start taking the bus up Madison. How much is it now—$.90? Yeah, that
would be so much easier.
Thursday, December 6, 1984
Fred called and reprimanded me because I’d invited a lot of people down to
the office for lunch. Very grand about it, very calm: “You shouldn’t do that,
you know.” And I invited John Sex to come and do the Liberace interview
with me. Liberace wanted me to do him. He seems to think we know each
other, but I don’t remember ever meeting him. But he came and he was just
wonderful. He walked in like a butterball because of the big fat coat he was
wearing, but he’s very normal, nothing like his show-business personality,
which explains why he’s so big, because if he were really that kind of
person he’d be too crazy to make it. But gee, he must have a lot of money—
he has like eighteen houses. He said he taught Elvis how to dress. Badly.
Glenn O’Brien was originally going to do him, but then John Sex has been
idolizing him for years and he came and then he just had such dumb
questions like “What’s your favorite color?” that I was going to then go
back to having Glenn do it. But when John Sex and Liberace saw each other
(laughs) they fell in love, sparks flew. But Liberace’s so normal, you can
see why he won all his court cases.
Sunday, December 9, 1984
Well I wanted to go down to work, but in the morning Jed called and said
he was coming over in an hour to get the dogs, so an hour later when the
bell rang I opened the door without looking and who should be standing
there but Crazy Matty! God, after all these months and months of trying to
convince him I didn’t live there, and everybody’s been trying to tell him he
had the wrong house. And I just couldn’t believe it. He laughed and said,
“You’re in trouble.” So then the whole day I didn’t leave the house, I was
too nervous.
Tuesday, December 11, 1984
Got up early, talked to PH who was in L.A. Maybe that’s where we should
move the big offices of the magazine. She said her Harrison Ford cover
interview is still up in the air, he probably won’t do it but he hasn’t given
Gael a definite no.
Interviewed Chris Reeve yesterday, Maura and I did, and he was good,
he was still drunk from the night before. He’s got a good attitude now, not
like he had when he started. Now he’ll take any role.
Fred’s been so crabby lately. We haven’t been hitting it off. I don’t know
if he’s bored and wants to be a decorator or if he’s just crabby. He gets these
attitudes. And it’s scary because he used to have the best memory in the
world and now he says softly to me, “Now tell me, who is this person you
introduced me to?” And he’s talking about Dawn Mello who he knows! It’s
scary.
Burt Reynolds was on Letterman and was so funny because there he was
acting so straight and copying Clark Gable and then he said that he arrived
in New York with George Maharis! So now I’m so surprised I never knew
him in the fifties in New York.
Wednesday, December 12, 1984
Went to Dr. Bernsohn’s and who should be there in the waiting room but the
star of my movie, Blowjob. I never did know his name. He goes to
Bernsohn, too.
Friday, December 14, 1984
And Fred’s gone off to Europe. Fred and I still aren’t getting along and I
still don’t know what he wants. All I can figure is that he really wants to
become an architect, because the only time he really likes credit is when it’s
for architecture. I remember one time years ago when I wanted Fred to
direct a Jackie Curtis play and he went crazy, he literally went crazy and
said, “No no no no!” But architecture he wants to do.
Saturday, December 15, 1984
Got up early, had to go to work. Had Jay come in and Rupert. During the
week it’s impossible to work at the new place, it’s just people coming
through and gawking all the time.
I bought three Cabbage Patch dolls on the street with their birth
certificates. A boy and two girls (3 X $80 = $240). And they wanted to wrap
them so that I wouldn’t be attacked for them on the street. Got research
books ($180).
Sunday, December 16, 1984
Kenny Scharf called and said he was picking me up and that Sean Lennon
was in the car with him. So I said in an hour, but then I couldn’t seem to be
ready, so then I heard a commotion out in front and I knew they were there,
but then I was afraid to go out.
And while this was going on, the phone rang and it was Jean Michel
from Sweden and when he heard these other kids were at my house, he
began to go crazy because he’s never been there. But it’s just that I don’t
like anything pre-planned. If he just dropped in or something it’d be okay.
So finally I went out and I had a camera with me and Sean took it and was
taking pictures of me and said that he was waiting until I got sick of smiling
and then he’d take one. He got that technique from Yoko. And he
dissertated on how he never knew what to do when photographers were
around, whether to smile or act or freeze. He’s so smart.
So we went to the West Side and we were going to pick up the Mia
Farrow kids who live across from the Dakota—Sean plays with them—but
then they didn’t come. And Yoko came, and people just kept a distance from
this car—it was great—with all these famous people in it. And we picked
up Jon.
We were thinking of a place to have lunch and I said the Odeon and she
said oh yes, so it seemed like she went there a lot but then she said she’d
never been, that she didn’t really go out that much. And we picked up her I
guess boyfriend, although I can’t figure it out if it’s her boyfriend or what.
Sam Havadtoy.
You know, if anything ever happened to Sean that’d be the end of her, I
think. It really would. And I was telling her what a wonderful host Sean was
at his birthday party and she said that the first time he had to do a party he
hid under the couch. Yoko wanted to pay, but I did (lunch $200). Her
boyfriend was very nice. And Kenny’s paintings are selling like crazy. His
wife and son were along, and they just bought a house on Suffolk Street
way downtown where Ray Johnson used to live. Around Orchard, over
there. So he’s being a man. A provider.
I dropped Jon ($8). Then stayed home.
Tuesday, December 18, 1984
I went to the office and went in the Interview side. It was busy there. Gael
was excited because they’d gotten 600 subscriptions that day from the
Swatch watch thing. So she was hoping that would keep up. In the old days
that’s how much we’d get in a year.
Paige is breaking up with her seventeen-year-old boyfriend. She’s going
off to Haiti.
Ran into one of those kids from Harvard in the sixties, one of Edie’s
friends, I can’t remember his name. And I showed him my crystals and told
him about crystal power and he was just standing there with his mouth
open. He said he couldn’t believe that someone as smart as me would start
believing in crystals after I made it all through the sixties and everything
and laughed at all the hippie stuff and that this is just the recycle of it. But
really it’s not the same, and you do have to be positive, not negative. He
said he’s developing land deals in Washington State.
Wednesday, December 19, 1984
Fred called from Europe. Bruno wanted twenty-eight pictures in his four-
year contract, but I decided he could only have twenty-five, and then I give
him one for himself, so that’s twenty-six. This is for Jean Michel’s and my
things. But I don’t get it, these are huge paintings he’s getting for peanuts.
And it’s funny, because only my Disaster paintings are the “in”
paintings. Even the Campbell’s Soup Cans are “out.” And I really have only
two collectors. Saatchi and Newhouse a little bit. Whereas Roy Lichtenstein
and those people have fifteen or twenty. I guess I’m just not… a good
painter.
It got busy at the office. Sean Lennon was coming at 4:00 so I could
give him a Christmas present, a portrait of himself, but I don’t know if it’ll
be done in time.
Then at home I ate things I wasn’t supposed to and I got scared and got
pains.
The Interview Christmas party’s on Friday and I’ll just give scarves or
something.
Thursday, December 20, 1984
When I was coming back from the dentist this good-looking lady ran out of
Martha’s screaming my name and I looked and it was Claudia Cohen’s
mother from Palm Beach. She said Claudia was inside getting her dress for
her wedding to Ron Perelman. When I met him originally I thought he was
a bodyguard because he looks a little Mafia. But he owns Technicolor or
something. So I was trying to get myself invited to the wedding.
Gerry Grinberg from North American Watches came for lunch. He said
that the economy isn’t good. I guess people aren’t buying watches. He said
people were buying more expensive gifts but only for themselves. Bob
Denison only sent me half of what he sent me the year before, but then Park
Avenue does have five times more trees planted on it than last year.
Eizo, my shiatsu massager, wrote me a note thanking me for introducing
him to Yoko Ono. She wants to see him every day, but he can’t do that, and
anyway your body needs a week to rest. He’s doing little Sean tomorrow.
And Eizo’s wife’s poetry teacher wrote me a Pop poem that I don’t know
what to do with. It’s like, “I touch you and you touch me and we have
feelings.” And you really learn all the gossip about everybody through this
shiatsu network. Eizo told me that Yoko’s boyfriend Sam has a soft body.
And he said Yoko’s been sick and has a bad back.
And then went to 990 Fifth Avenue to the party Judy Peabody was
giving for Peter Allen. I was talking to this art student and suddenly Peter
came over and said to him, “I’m leaving and you’re coming with me!” He
thought I was stealing his boyfriend! Can you imagine? That’s the first time
that’s ever happened to me. So I didn’t know what to do, but then I guess
Peter felt silly because later he was trying to entertain me. I left at 12:30,
the party was just getting going.
Saturday, December 22, 1984
Went to David Daine’s, the hair stylist. Kent Klineman, Hedy’s husband,
was there, and all he sees in me is a tax shelter and all I see in him is a
check. I don’t know if the deal for a Cowboys and Indians portfolio he
wants to commission is going to fall through because I won’t do it as a tax
shelter. We’ll see.
Sunday, December 23, 1984
I caught up on church after missing three Sundays because of wanting to
avoid Crazy Matty. So I peeked out and then made a dash for it. It’s so
funny to think that Matty was married to Genevieve Waite once. Are
Genevieve and John Phillips still together? And I’m trying to think, has
Matty ever had a job? No, I don’t think so. Except for a few months there in
the sixties when he was a vice-president or something at Fox—when all
those movie companies wanted the “youth market” so they were hiring
freaks. I remember somebody there was always flying Matty back and forth
from L.A. to New York Oh I forgot, he was in Bad. So that was a day’s
work. I forgot he was the cripple in the wheelchair….
So went to church, came home, started cleaning, and got exactly one
drawer done. Made carrot juice and made a big mess. Watched The Jewel in
the Crown. Read an article from an L.A. newspaper on Ronnie Levin’s
murder. They haven’t found his body but they think this bunch of rich kids
killed him and also killed the father of one of these kids—an Iranian— they
found his body in the desert and they think Ronnie’s is nearby. It was
fascinating, read it twice.
Monday, December 24, 1984
Stephen Sprouse came by and brought two wigs for me. But I thought they
would be some kind of wild style or color, which I would have preferred—a
new look. But they were grey. Stretch. And we never know what to say to
each other, it’s always awkward.
Called a cab and Benjamin dropped me. Then called Halston and it was
weird, he said not to come by, that he really wasn’t doing anything this
Christmas.
Called Chris Makos and he was having a party for his neighbors and it
sounded sort of bad. Christmas parties always are. Except at Halston’s—
they were always sort of nice. Went by and rang Claudia Cohen’s bell on
63rd Street because I want to get invited to her wedding to Ron Perelman
because Liz Taylor is going to be the matron of honor and her husband-to-
be Dennis Stein is going to be I think best man. He works for Perelman,
that’s where I met him. Every light in the house was on but they weren’t
home. Dropped their scarves off.
Benjamin picked me up and we went to Steve Rubell’s new hotel,
Morgan’s, to the penthouse (cab $4). Steve’s letting Bianca live there. And
her personal stuff was all over the room where the party was so anybody
could have taken anything. And I gave her and Jade scarves and hers was
framed, and then later I saw it on the bed and she’d taken it out of the
frame, and I don’t know why. I mean, even if she didn’t like it, it was art.
And Dianne Brill asked me if I knew Jayne Mansfield and I guess I lied
when I said yes because I couldn’t remember if I really did or not. Because
I’ve read so many books about her. Dianne wanted to know if it was voodoo
that killed her.
Thursday, December 27, 1984—Aspen, Colorado
Talked to Dr. Bernsohn. He said that the secret to sleeping was to scratch
the crystal and brush it and put it on your forehead.
Patti D’Arbanville and Don Johnson gave a big party, and my dear, Patti
is now a lady. She’s come a long way from the Max’s Kansas City back
room days when she was best friends with Géraldine Smith and Andrea
Whips. She and Don Johnson gave the best party I’ve been to since we’ve
been coming to Aspen. She’s the cream of the crop. She still can’t dress,
though. She never could. Even when we filmed her in Paris in our movie
L’Amour—even in Paris she had no fashion. Jane Forth and Donna Jordan
had all the style in that movie because the boys dressed them. At the party
Patti was wearing eighteen-inch earrings and a white dress that didn’t show
off the shape of her body. Don looks sort of old, not the fresh young boy I
remember meeting way back when he was in The Magic Garden of Stanley
Sweetheart. Before his comeback in Miami Vice and everything, when he
wasn’t acting much, he was hanging around with musicians and he
remembered that time during the Jimmy Carter days when we were both in
Nashville when that guy who supported Carter, Phil Walden from Capricorn
Records, had the whole hotel down there booked for us. That time I was
there with Catherine Guinness.
Monday, December 31, 1984—Aspen
Met the Dowager of Aspen, the Grand Dame. Went to her house. Her name
is (laughs) Pussy Paepcke. She’s eighty-two and she’s very beautiful, she
looks like Katharine Hepburn. Her house was great, next to Jack
Nicholson’s and Lou Adler’s. An immaculate house and she runs up and
down stairs to get ginseng tea, she’s spry. She and her husband who was
this big industrialist had a ranch in Denver and then they went and founded
Aspen.
Jack Nicholson’s not around this year. He’s filming that Prizzis Honor
thing in L.A.
Wednesday, January 2, 1985—Aspen—Los
Angeles
We’re at the Mondrian Hotel. And it does look like a Mondrian. They’ve
got valuable Miro paintings in the lobby and art all over. It’s on Sunset near
La Ciénega. It’s not Beverly Hills.
You know what’s fascinating is that Hollywood’s still filled with all
these delicate ladies who look like they were beauties, all glued up and in
their cars, driving around. Not with drivers, just driving themselves. And
you wonder what they used to do, what star they were, what roles they had.
Everybody reminds me of Jane Wyatt out there. Those skinny, petite
beauties who wear turbans and they’re at premieres and things. And they’re
like eighty years old. How do these ladies live? I mean, if they were
contract players they didn’t make much. I guess one of their husbands must
have been rich. But wasn’t that before community settlements? But I guess
you don’t need much to live. Like you don’t pay rent if you have your own
house. And food, well, you can eat at McDonald’s or there’s always some
fairy fan who’ll take you around.
We went out driving, took a lot of pictures on Melrose. Went to the
Interview office out there, talked to Gael and I was really upset when she
told me that Peter Lester had died in Los Angeles. That’s two Interview
editors dead of AIDS.
Thursday, January 3, 1985—Los Angeles
We went over to a studio across from the Formosa Restaurant, they shoot
Doug Cramer’s TV show Dynasty there. The Love Boat writers are working
on my episode which is going to film on March thirtieth and I started to get
scared, I don’t know if I can go through with it. The guy was really gay.
And Joan Collins got done shooting and I said hi, and she said I still owed
her a painting. She was great. And Ali McGraw waved. There were like 500
people there working. And it’s directed by Curtis Harrington who was an
underground filmmaker in the sixties who did voodoo kind of stuff, and
now he’s doing this.
Then we went to the Interview offices and I got excited about Interview.
I think I do want to buy a building out there, because they’ll only give you
leases to rent for a few months. Gael said that Third Street is going to be the
next street that’s big. I got excited on Melrose. Jon’s trying to move into
production at Paramount, so he has to be out here more. And gee, I can’t
believe that it gets dark here at the same time it does in New York. It seems
like since it’s sunny it should stay light longer. I was shocked.
Then we went out to the premiere of the redone Wings that Paramount
was releasing and it was absolutely great. And you look and you think why
can’t they make movies like this now. Buddy Rogers who was married to
Mary Pickford was there. And Clara Bow was just great in it. The fashions
look like today. And it was a big event. Got home around 11:30 or 12:00.
Saturday, January 5, 1985—Los Angeles
Did Melrose. It was warm and beautiful and sunny. Oh, and I heard about
about a way to shoplift at the supermarket which I think I’m (laughs) going
to do—switching the price stickers at the supermarket.
Went to the new museum way downtown. It was an automobile show.
Real cars mixed in with Ma tisses and Rosenquists. And they had a painting
of mine in it that they had labeled a “Car Crash.” But when I saw it, it
wasn’t a Car Crash it was a Disaster. The one with the fireman. Should I tell
them? How could they not even notice it didn’t have a car in it. And the
show’s going on to Detroit. In Detroit they’ll notice there’s no car. But
really, should I tell them?
Sunday, January 6, 1985—Los Angeles—New
York
Jon invited me to breakfast at the Beverly Hills Hotel and it was a grey day
but we ate outside anyway, they put heaters all around you, so you don’t
know it’s cold.
Flew to New York. And at the baggage you see how pushy people are.
This guy with polished nails just pushed everybody aside, and then there
was a girl in a wheelchair and when her luggage came down the shoot she
just got up out of the chair and ran and got it. (laughs) That’s a real scene.
Home at 1:30 (tip to driver $20).
Tuesday, January 8, 1985
Vincent just called on the other line and said we have to make half a million
by March to make our payments on the new building.
Went over to Earl McGrath’s for the birthday party of Jann Wenner and
Sabrina Guinness, a double. And Jerry Hall was there, she looks just great.
She looks like these girls who could marry big Texas millionaires. She’s so
stupid to have married Mick. Not to have married, even.
And by the way, Fred looks good, I wonder if he had a facelift when he
was in Europe. It’s nothing drastic, he just looks rested. If I had a lift,
though, I’d go for the really tight-pulled look. I wouldn’t care if I couldn’t
shut my eyes. Like Monique Van Vooren.
Thursday, January 10, 1985
Fred said that Si Newhouse passed on buying my painting. I guess I was hot
before Christmas and now I’m not. This was for another painting, not the
Natalie that he already got.
And Fred told me that he’d called down to Leo’s and asked the kids who
work there why Leo had said such bad things about me in that USA Today
article on me on Monday and they said they’d find out. And they told Fred
that Rauschenberg left Leo to go to Blum-Helman. Isn’t that something?
Well it’s that Leo’s getting senile. I know that’s why he said those things,
he’s getting senile.
Benjamin dropped me at Jean Michel’s and he has like twenty people
working for him, getting big canvases ready. It’s really neat and clean there
now and it looks great. And he has a $5,000 TV set that’s really big.
Then we cabbed to Julian Schnabel’s on Park Avenue South and 20th.
Bryan Ferry was there. Julian has all his own art in the place and he tells
you about each one, he stands there and reads into his own work. I mean, he
literally stands there and (laughs) tells you what his paintings mean. And
this was the first time in a long time I wished I was tape recording.
Schnabel also makes his own furniture. He made his own bed. Cast iron,
gunmetal, really heavy. If you ever fell on it you’d kill yourself. His little
girl was there and she was pulling her nightgown up and showing her pussy.
(laughs) It was weird. And all his paintings are just everywhere, all the plate
canvases—he used to be a short-order cook. And he has the best furniture
from the fifties.
Schnabel has so much energy and balls, he really does. We drank red
wine. It’s the newest thing to drink red wine all through the meal, you don’t
have to have white wine with fish and things anymore. It’s such a camp
when they do the tasting and the lip-smacking. So then we went over to
Clemente’s.
The table there was one that Schnabel had made and actually it was
great. The legs were all from different things and the top is hand-colored
plaster. And all through dinner they played Maria Callas records! It was
incredible. There’s this new collection of forty records of everything she
ever did and it comes in two cases and they sell them at newsstands in Italy.
And it was just like the sixties. I could almost see Ondine whisking around
in the shadows. And you could hear all the booing and the clapping on the
record.
The food was good and it smelled so terrific. Alba Clemente did it. She
could be the best movie star, her voice is so low and so loud and so sexy
and interesting and she’s pretty. And the talk was all about art. Julian was
putting down de Kooning and I said oh no, that he was wrong, that de
Kooning was a great painter, and then finally Clemente said yes, that he
really was.
Thomas Ammann called and said that it was really cold in Switzerland.
Bruno wants me to go there for Jean Michel’s opening. Someone was
saying that when all these dealers heard there was a really talented black
artist who would probably die off soon from drugs, that they hurried to buy
his things and now I guess they’re frustrated because he’s staying alive. I
think Jean Michel will be the most famous black artist after this New York
Times thing comes out.
Saturday, January 12, 1985
Jean Michel called and said he was coming by to work and he did, and he
brought his mother. Jean-Michel’s mother is a sweet mother, she brought
him a birthday present that said from Marni—M-A-M-I. Then we went to
Shafrazi’s and Ronnie Cutrone was there with his girlfriend Tama Janowitz
who they said just wrote a novel that some publishers are interested in.
Ronnie said it was like Terms of Endearment but then other people said it
was about downtown, which was what interested me. Ronnie was in a red
Day-Glo Stephen Sprouse jacket.
Wednesday, January 16, 1985
The office got busy. I get so much exercise running up and down those
stairs.
I talked to Jean Michel and invited him to the party that Fred was giving
for Natasha Grenfell at Le Club. And he asked if he could bring—he said,
“My girlfriend,” and I was shocked. I said he’d never called anybody that
before, and he said her body was so hot that he would come five times in a
night. This is a black girl he met who works at Comme des Garçons.
Worked till 8:00.
Thursday, January 17, 1985
I heard snow shovels hitting the pavement at 6 A.M. And there’s a big bus
of students coming up from Carnegie-Mellon for a tour of the office. They
probably got up at 6:30 and they’re zipping along on the highway right
now. Oh God, oh God …
I talked to Gael for about an hour and she said, “Tell me how wonderful
I am,” and so I said, “How wonderful you are.” And she said she turned
down a big job with cable TV and if it was big, she should’Ve taken it, but
if I’d said that to her she would’ve gone home crying.
Tuesday, January 22, 1985
Talked to Jean Michel and he was in a funny mood. He thinks his
“girlfriend” doesn’t love him and so he’s taking heroin again. The black
girl. Charlotte. I told him I would come and visit him. Cabbed to pick him
up ($8).
We went to Odeon and had two tables and there were twelve of us. Boy
George had that boy Marilyn with him. Jean Michel was nodding out. There
was a little kid with Keith who didn’t say anything, and Keith didn’t say
much, and I didn’t say anything, so Boy George had to do all the talking
and he’s really intelligent, really a smart kid, and he does talk a lot.
He said he doesn’t know who his friends really are. Like he doesn’t
know if Joan Rivers really is a friend or not, so he thinks some day he’ll call
her up “just to talk” and then he’ll find out. He didn’t like the line about
him and his boyfriend in her interview in Interview and I said that I hadn’t
wanted that to go in. He takes out a powder puff all the time and puffs his
face. His eye makeup was done beautifully.
Friday, January 25, 1985
Cabbed to 74th Street ($2) to see Dr. Bernsohn and he was going on about
his phones being tapped by the FBI. Are these crystal things real or not? Dr.
Reese is from near Kansas City. He’s a chiropractor and so is Dr. Bernsohn.
And the crystals come from Arkansas, and they’re supposed to heal you.
The Czech cut-glass one that I wear is to protect me. It’s a “third eye” (cab
$6).
Had to meet a lady for her portrait. She’s just somebody who saw
somebody else’s. I don’t know her name. She was pretty. And Jon
interviewed Shirley MacLaine for the cover of Interview’s Health issue, he’s
transcribing it himself so he can edit it, I guess, before he gives it in.
It was a day of running up and down stairs. I was looking at Fred to see
if he still had a hangover, to see if he could still do the business. I don’t
know. I was going to tell him that his face fell.
Wednesday, January 30, 1985
It was Benjamin’s last day before going off to L.A. for a week to visit his
mother.
I found out that I’d missed the Kansai lunch at the Four Seasons where I
would have sat next to Kansai because Brigid forgot to tell me about it. I
screamed at her, so now this morning she just called and very efficiently
woke me up to tell me that there was nothing to do today. (laughs) To make
sure I knew.
Jean Michel invited me to dinner with his father at Odeon (cab $6). And
the father was this thin normal-looking man in a business suit, smart, and so
you can see where Jean Michel gets his smartness.
And now Jean Michel doesn’t even like his girlfriend from Comme des
Garçons, Charlotte, because she borrowed money from him. He likes to
give people money but then he resents them for taking it. He’ll say,
“They’re using me.” It’s a funny attitude. And in a moment of passion once
he told her he loved her and she told him that she was a “free woman,” so
he tied her up and told her how dare she think that he meant it.
Friday, February 1, 1985
Tab Hunter called about going to the screening of Lust in the Dust that John
Springer was doing for him and Divine (cab $4). The movie was awful but I
had to lie to Tab and say I loved it. He was literally trying to act! He tried to
be Clint Eastwood when all he should have done was be Tab Hunter.
Tuesday, February 12, 1985
Washed and went to the Waldorf for the Barbie doll party (cab $4). Oscar de
la Renta was there, he was doing the clothes for the Barbie doll. It’s so sick,
this whole world so involved with this stupid little doll. I was at table 1 by
the runway. Sat with Joan Kron and also at the table was Beauregard
something, a Southern not-quite-in-drag queen who writes for Details, he’s
smart, like a Jackie Curtis-type but meeker. He told me when Joan left that
he lives with Joan Kron’s stepson.
Friday, February 15, 1985
Dolly Fox came by to see me. She’s back from living in L.A. with these two
other girls. And one of them is going to marry Bruce Springsteen. And the
other one is her blonde girlfriend Dana, and she introduced her to Eric
Roberts and now Eric Roberts left Sandy Dennis for her.
And Gael is upset because one of the Interview editors is leaving for a
better job. Jane Sarkin. She’s going to Vanity Fair. But Interview has so
many people now that I can’t even figure out what each one does, so to me
they’re all dispensable. Except for Paige. I really like Paige. And Marc
Balet. I would miss Marc—he’s talented and he does a lot, although he’d do
even more if he weren’t so busy with all his freelance stuff, the Armani ads
and things.
Wednesday, February 20, 1985
This life insurance doctor came to examine me. Another one of those weird
doctors giving me a weird insurance exam. The same old questions about
your mother and your father and I lie all the time, I always give them
different answers. And he asked me my age and I said I couldn’t face saying
my age, that I would leave the room and he could ask Vincent. Then I
noticed that he was wearing a bracelet and I said, “Why are you wearing a
bracelet?” and he said, “Well, I will tell you why I am wearing a bracelet.”
And then he started this long thing about how in 1592 something happened,
and how this is somehow related to why the pope was shot, and why the
Russians shot down the Korean airliner because they’d lost 200 people in
some Siberian explosion, and all this went on for twenty minutes. And then
I asked him where he got his bracelet, and he said, “Teepee Town.” And I
said, “Teepee Town went out of business.” And he said, “No, it just moved
off 42nd Street—now it’s in the Port Authority bus terminal.” And then he
told me to put my urine in this little bottle. And I just could think that he
probably goes to the Port Authority and collects urine in bottles. He’s about
6’6” and his eyes are weird, like a little brain-damaged or milky. He took
my blood pressure and did my heart. It was the most fun part of the day.
Worked till 7:30.
Saturday, February 23, 1985
Got up and it was one of the most beautiful days in the world. Madison
Avenue was five-deep every step. Called Jon and picked him up and asked
him what was new in Hollywood. Nothing, he said.
And everybody keeps saying what’s wrong with Steve Rubell, because
his hair has fallen out and his eyebrows, too, because that’s what happens
when you get chemotherapy.
Tuesday, February 26, 1985
I don’t understand why Jackie O. thinks she’s so grand that she doesn’t owe
it to the public to have another great marriage to somebody big. You’d think
she’d want to scheme and connive to get into history again.
And Gael had a fight with Glenn O’Brien because he sold the same
interview he did for Interview to the new magazine, Spin, that Bob
Guccione’s son is doing that’s competing with Rolling Stone, and Glenn’s
telling her it was all the stuff that she had cut out, so what difference did it
make.
I invited Benjamin to this Forbes opening at their building on 13th and
Fifth Avenue now that they’ve turned the lobby into a museum (cab $4).
Malcolm Forbes was there and I gave him a Dollar Sign painting and he
was thrilled, he loved it. Talked to a kid who worked there and told him that
what I wanted for Christmas was Malcolm Forbes’s junk mail, and he said
he’d get me some. I wish Truman had given me his junk mail like he
promised he would.
Friday, March 1,1985
The other day a call came collect from Ingrid Superstar. I didn’t take it. I
mean, if she’s still calling collect … I couldn’t face hearing about her life—
kids/no kids, married/not married. And David White called and asked me if
it was okay with me if Rauschenberg sold the Popeye for a million dollars
that I gave him in ‘62. I said sure … I don’t know to who. David said that
after the deal’s done he’ll tell me. So we can sell whoever it is something,
too.
Wednesday, March 6, 1985
Harper & Row called me at work and said that Jane Fonda had sent a turn-
down for our request to use her picture in the America book. I just couldn’t
believe it! What nerve! I mean, just wait —the next time she calls up and
wants something for free, it’s just going to be HO.
Gaetana Enders called about eight times to see if our dinner at Le Cirque
was still on. She drives me crazy, but she’s working for us getting portraits,
so … she smokes this tiny cigar and she thinks she’s this big man’s woman,
so smart and tough and great—this twerp! I mean, her husband’s 6’6” and
she’s 2’2”. I don’t know where she gets this idea of herself. I can’t even
think of who to say it’s like. A little like Diane Von Furstenberg. Where you
think you’re so smart and beautiful.
Saturday, March 9, 1985
Talked to Jean Michel and he said he was straight, but he sounded like he
was on something. He was with Jennifer, Eric Goode from Area’s sister,
who’s his new girlfriend. He’s got three or four girls on the string now, but
he’s only still in love with Charlotte, from Comme des Garçons.
And Jean Michel was complaining about the show that we’re having
with Bruno … oh, I don’t know, I think that whole period is over, with him
coming up to paint. He hasn’t come that much to the new building, just a
few times, and—well, he’s feeling on top now that his show is running
downtown, but I don’t know if he’s working.
Tuesday, March 12, 1985
Went up to Sotheby’s to look at the art and the lady there stopped me and
asked if I had a few minutes to look at a few paintings of mine for
authenticity, so I did, and one of them was one of those fake Electric Chairs,
the ones Gerard denies doing. A blue one. It wasn’t stretched right. The
people get greedy and they want a bigger picture, so it’s got a border on it.
They’d buy it rolled and then stretch it that way. And there were four big
Flower paintings. I guess everybody’s selling my work, getting rid of it
(phone $1.50, newspapers $3). Cabbed to meet Lidija ($4).
Thursday, March 14, 1985
It was the night of Dino De Laurentiis’s dinner at Alo Alo. And I called
Cornelia to see if she wanted to go.
The new issue of Interview came in, the Health issue, and it’s thick and
serious. It looks good.
Told Cornelia 8:30 and she came in a limo ($25). And Dino’s new
restaurant, this one that he’s done with the guy from Club A, it’s in the
Trump Plaza on 62nd Street and Third. And Géraldine Smith was there, she
was with some producer guy and she looks cute still. And Cornelia was
working the room. Chris Walken was there and then Mickey Rourke arrived
and he told me about the part in his Interview interview that PH cut out
where he had a big fight with her. PH had already told me all about it, but I
played dumb. And Géraldine said she wished she had interviewed Mickey
Rourke because she loves him and I reminded her of her interview with
Harrison Ford when she was sitting on his lap for twenty minutes before she
figured out he was the person she was supposed to interview. She was fun.
And Mickey is just so adorable. Dumb, but with some magic. And then
these girls came in for him and they were all the same types, about 5’4” and
pretty, but nothing special. And he and Chris Walken kissed each other
goodbye on the lips so tenderly, it looked so gay. And Chris Walken was
really drunk, he said he was tired of his hair, he’d dyed it blond, and now it
needed retouching, and Cornelia gave him the name of a hair place to go to.
Monday, March 18, 1985
I’m getting more nervous by the minute about being on The Love Boat. It
turns out I’m going to be there for ten days. Now that Jon’s working in L.A.
most of the time, he’s buying Joan Hackett’s old house on Angelo Drive in
Benedict Canyon. It’s cheap for Beverly Hills, only $100,000, next to really
expensive ones—Jon said the son of Charles Bludhorn, the chairman of
Gulf + Western, got one on the same block for $1.2 million.
Time magazine sent down the Iacocca picture, and if I can only make a
great portrait out of this picture then I could get a lot of corporation
presidents. If they use it they have to pay a lot, but if they don’t use it they
just pay a little bit.
Tuesday, March 19, 1985
Paige said she had tickets for Desperately Seeking Susan, which was
screening on 86th Street. So she waited and then we went to Nippon (cab
$4). Madonna doesn’t have much to do. She doesn’t talk in the first part.
But later on she does some good things, she sleeps in the bathtub and
dresses up and shoplifts. It’s like those sixties movies but the opposite—the
sixties movies had too much sixties and not enough story, and this has too
much story and not enough eighties. It was boring.
Wednesday, March 20, 1985
Amos has a crushed vertebra. At first the vet said it was a sore leg and then
he said a slipped disc. So I slept on the floor with him last night. I’m on the
floor now, still, with the phone, being a martyr.
So then I was working on the Joan Collins portrait and on some other
stuff, and then a big four-page telegram came from The Love Boat saying
that they wanted to show all my art on The Love Boat, too. The story is that
I go on The Love Boat and there’s a girl on the boat named Mary with her
husband, and she used to be a superstar of mine, and she doesn’t want her
husband to know that she used to be “Marina Del Rey.” And I just have a
few lines, things like “Hello, Mary.” But one of the lines I have to say is
something like “Art is crass commercialism,” which I don’t want to say.
PH will be in L.A. then, too, so we can do some work there on the Party
book—photograph the Academy Awards and the Love Boat thing. I’ll be at
the Bel Air.
Then went to the Whitney for the opening of the Biennial and waited
outside for Jean Michel. He had a new smile on his face. We went
downstairs and upstairs and saw Kenny Scharf and his wife and it was wall-
to-wall four floors. And a woman stopped Jean Michel and was raving and
raving about him saying, “This is my favorite artist. My husband and I,
you’re our favorite artist,” and I’m standing there, and I offer her an
autographed Interview and she says, “No.”
Then we went down to this place on Eighth Avenue and 14th Street,
where Jean Michel gets rice and beans, just one of those dirty ratholes that I
say I would never eat in, but it was so good that I did.
And then we called up Paul, the exercise trainer who works for Lidija,
and we were right near his apartment which is right off Abingdon Square
down there, a nice neighborhood, and so we went over there, and God, it’s
so strange when you finally see where a person lives, and it’s just so … I
mean, it’s this one room, and he’s been subletting it for a year or so, and
now the woman who he sublet it from is back and she’s about forty, and like
a hippie who wants to get backing for a restaurant, and their beds are just
like next to each other, and they aren’t in the apartment at the same time,
like you feel you can’t go home when the other one is there, so you feel like
you’re not really living anyplace I guess that that’s when your life is really
interesting, though, because it keeps you out there in action and getting into
weird situations. But I mean, I go from that, and then I come back up here
to (laughs) this, it’s so abstract. You know? But I don’t understand why he
could leave the place like such a dump. They should just get futons and not
waste space with the beds. And it would really only have taken a couple of
hours to pick the place up once while she was gone in Europe all that time.
And then we went to Area. Jean Michel has the right walk to pass right
through the crowd. He made me go to the bathroom there, the men’s room,
and it’s so funny there, there are girls putting on makeup in the mirrors and
the men are pissing in the urinals and it’d be great if it weren’t that it
smelled like shit. It’s just my kind of movie. I guess the ladies room is the
same way except without the urinals. Then I got out of there and went
home. Oh, and that lady at the Whitney who was so thrilled over Jean
Michel, she got him to sign a picture of the painting. That’s as good as
signing it, and then you paste it to the back. That’s why Leo sends me up
photographs sometimes.
Saturday, March 23, 1985
Worked, went to Karen Burke’s (cab $4). And I followed Garbo around the
streets. Took pictures of her. I’m pretty sure it was her. She had the dark
glasses and the big coat and pants on and the mouth, and she went into a
Trader Horn store to talk to a woman about TVs. Just the kind of thing she
would do. So I took pictures of her until I thought she would get mad and
then I walked downtown, (laughs) I was alone, too.
Stayed up all night until 5:10 getting ready for the next day to go to
California for The Love Boat and now maybe a Coke commercial, too.
Sunday, March 24, 1985—New York—Los
Angeles
Placido Domingo was on our plane and he was nice, he came over and
talked (newspapers $6). Beverly Sills was on, too. And Fred said Alan King
was on and said hello but I didn’t see him. Then a white limousine picked
us up and took us to the Bel Air Hotel. And as we were going in Philip
Johnson and David Whitney were walking out. Philip’s here to give a
lecture at one of the colleges. Went to the Beverly Hills Hotel pool, and
everybody from New York was there—Laura Landro who writes the movie
stuff for the Wall Street Journal and Susan Mulcahy, and Ahmet Ertegun
and Mark Goodson.
Monday, March 25, 1985—Los Angeles
Got up early and The Love Boat at first wasn’t sending a car. They said it
“wasn’t in the contract.” They wanted me to take a cab. But Fred talked to
them. And when we got here, since they didn’t have a room reserved for
Fred, I’m wondering if they’re paying for his. I think they must be. So I
went to the wardrobe place and ordered a pair of Reebok shoes, but I only
ordered one and I should’ve ordered more. And the kid who came to pick
me up, I asked if he was trying to be an actor, and he said, “Oh no, I’m
Captain of the Cars.” He was very cute. We drove to the old Goldwyn
Studios on Santa Monica near La Brea.
These places are so cold, you sit around freezing all day in these
soundstages, and it’s no wonder people want to be actors because the only
place it’s warm is under the lights.
So then I was done there and they brought me back to the hotel, and then
Suzanne Somers had told Doug Christmas that she just had to have lunch
with us, so we went to meet her at Ma Maison and then she cancelled. But
Orson Welles was there at his own table and he said he wanted to meet me
and I went over and he was just great, really great, and he’s a person I
would like to interview myself. And then afterwards we went to Doug’s
place and Roy Lichtenstein was there signing some things, so that was
exciting.
And then Jon met us and took us to the Beverly Hills for drinks. The
taxis from there to the Bel Air are expensive ($8). Got dressed and went
over to Spago where Swifty Lazar was having his party for the Academy
Awards. And the traffic was so bad, it took so long to get over there. It’s on
Sunset above Tower Records. I had to sign like 800 autographs. All the
press was there like Susan Mulcahy and Barbara Howar. And Cary Grant
and Jimmy Stewart came and just everybody came after the awards. Faye
Dunaway and Raquel Welch and just everybody.
Tuesday, March 26, 1985—Los Angeles
Got up really early. The paper had me as the big star at Swifty’s. Got picked
up to go to The Love Boat set. Had to do my “Hello, Mary” line, and the
gay director is saying, “Give it some pizzazz—Hel-lo, Ma-ry!” And I say,
“Hel-lo, Ma-ry.”
PH met me there and we sat in the dressing room for a couple of hours
while they rearranged the lights or whatever they do. My Stephen Sprouse
jackets were there on the wardrobe rack and when I wear them, I think I
finally look like people want Andy Warhol to look again, and now I’m
thinking I should’ve worn the silver one the night before to Spago and that
when I’m out of New York I should forget all this black-tie stuff and just go
for flash. Talked with PH about movies and abstract ways to do scripts.
Made a phone call to Jon and he said that Shirley MacLaine was trying
to call me because she was really upset about the little banner headline on
the interview he did with her in the Health issue. It said: “Metaphysical
Madam.” And Jon shouldn’t have gone over to her and said, “It’s not my
fault,” because that’s the wrong negative thing to do. She never would’ve
even noticed it or thought about it, probably, and now she’s up in arms. I
don’t even know why. What does “Madam” mean? I mean, it’s just a
regular word. And the introduction I guess Gael wrote, and it’s just all stuff
from other places. Jon wrote one and they didn’t like it, they said it had too
much of himself in it—Gael told him, “You are not Arianna
Stassinopoulos.”
Went back to the Bel Air and had dinner there with Vincent and Andrew
Friendly, Fred Friendly’s son, who’s trying to sell our TV show. And he
talks about his “lady” and who in their right mind would talk that way. It
was a good dinner and he paid.
And Joanna Carson came over to say hello and she’s so beautiful. We
talked about her son and his career.
Wednesday, March 27, 1985—Los Angeles
Shirley MacLaine was calling me and I didn’t call her back, so then she
called Gael Love in New York and told the receptionist, “Let me talk to
Gael Hate.” And now she’s telling Gael that she wants to see the sources for
everything that was in the introduction to her interview. Fred said he’d call
Shirley and smooth it out.
So I finally finished shooting that day’s scenes on The Love Boat. Got
back to the hotel so late, and then Fred and I went over to Doug Cramer’s,
right above the Bel Air Hotel in this big house that they’re adding rooms to
to make it even bigger. And Linda Evans was there and Joan Collins and
Morgan Fairchild and James Brolin, and the ship captain from The Love
Boat—the bald guy.
And Calvin came in right from a plane and said that he wasn’t going to
have his big party at Steve Rubell’s new club for its opening. He said he’s
spent six months trying to get a new image and he doesn’t want to blow it. I
told him that I’d bought a bottle of Obsession, one of the first, and he said
why did I go and do that when he’d sent me one and I said that I’d gotten
the one he sent after I’d already bought one.
It was 10:30 before dinner started. And Shirlee Fonda is still in love with
the playwright guy, Neil Simon. And Doug Cramer’s friend made me take
pictures with his 3-D camera. Marcia Weisman was with her new friend.
There were beautiful dogs. Thomas Ammann was there, and Jody Jacobs
from the L.A. Times, and the Spellings.
And then we went to Mr. Chow’s because Jean Michel had decided to
give his own party there since he hadn’t been invited to the Cramer one.
And he had all these really cute boys and girls there.
Thursday, March 28, 1985—Los Angeles
Jean Michel was really sweet and sent over a drawing for me. He’s gone off
to Hawaii.
Had a day off from The Love Boat.
The couple from A&M records, the Mosses, came for a portrait, and the
wife was puffy around the eyes and we had to wait for her eyes to go down.
Went over to Tony and Berry Perkins’s in one of the canyons. They have
a big house, six bedrooms. There’s really a lot of traffic. Where Jon’s house
is there’s absolutely no traffic. And Tony cooked the dinner and listen to
what it was—meatloaf and polenta and bread pudding. It’s been so long
since I’ve eaten like that. Not since the fifties when people were poor. He
uses this new cookbook that has a lot of recipes from the forties and fifties
like Rice Krispies Squares. It’s called something like short-cut cooking.
Wendy Stark was there and she wasn’t so cheerful, maybe it was just
because she wasn’t drinking. Sue Mengers was fun, blabbing away, and her
husband was with her. They have Indian rugs. And Tony asked after Chris
Makos. Berry was kissy and huggy. Nick and Lisa Love were there. We
stayed until about 11:00 and then went back to the hotel.
Friday, March 29, 1985—Los Angeles
They picked me up at 6:00 to take me to the set. The same cute driver. I
wish he was a fairy, but he isn’t. He’s trying to make all the girls. And they
all have Barbie doll bodies! You can’t believe them. No hips and big tits.
He’s just divorced and says he’s a “country boy,” he lives “in the Valley” or
someplace like that. Jay is his name. The Captain of the Cars. And he sits
there and does crossword puzzles all day when he’s not driving. And I said,
“Don’t you want to further your career? If you can do crossword puzzles,
you can direct.”
I had to sign autographs for all the girl actresses and dancers. I was
finished by 9:30. Marion Ross from Happy Days plays the ex-superstar, and
she’s a little old to play an ex-sixties superstar, but I really love her so
much. She’s a wonderful person, and she helps me, she has so much love.
And when we do a scene together, she does great facial things that help me
do my lines. And actually, though, Ultra Violet’s probably older than
Marion.
And then we went over to the Dynasty soundstage and tried to see
Catherine Oxenberg but she said she was in an accident and was crying and
didn’t want to see us, I don’t know. I bet she just had a fight with her
boyfriend.
Then they took me downtown to do the Diet Coke commercial. And
there was a float and about eight ex-Miss Americas or Miss Universes and
all the police were lusting after them, and I was wearing my Stephen
Sprouse jacket. And one of the girls in a bathing suit said that she had been
in Walter Steding’s group. And I went and waited in my own private mobile
trailer and I used the bathroom and that was fun, and then I guess the word
the crew uses for the actors is “talent” and so one girl opened the trailer
door and said, “Where’s the talent?” and she looked around and didn’t see
any I guess, so she left. I don’t know, I guess she didn’t recognize me. And
we were on a big float with pansies. The girls sat on the pansies, and I had
to say, “Diet Coke,” and I drank it for the first time.
Later went to Wendy Stark’s dinner for Sharon Hammond. Dennis
Hopper was there, very straight. I asked him to reshoot all the photos he
took in the sixties and we would run them in Interview. Shoot Peter Fonda
again and all those people. Wouldn’t that be good?
And Wendy made curry with her own hands. Nobody ate it except Fred.
And they brought out banana-cream cake for Sharon’s birthday. In the day
we were shopping for a present for her and all I did was get things for
myself, so I gave her an I.O.U. It’s so strange to see Sharon away from New
York and Southampton. She was wearing a dress from North Beach
Leather, it looked like rubber.
Oh, and Ron Perelman is out here and he said, “I want to have a big talk
with you. I want to buy your magazine for my wife. Who do I talk to?” And
I said, “Fred.” For Claudia, he wants it.
Saturday, March 30, 1985—Los Angeles
Went to be photographed for an L.A. Eye works ad at 4:00. And one of the
women owners was there and this fat queen named Teddy was doing my
hair and after he left someone told me that that was the one Joe Dallesandro
was living with for years and may be back living with again, and I went
crazy—because it would’ve been so much fun if only I’d known. Joe would
go and live with a fat queen hairdresser just to be perverse.
Went to Spago for dinner. Gene Kelly was there with his son, and his
son said he’d see us later at Brad Branson’s party (dinner $300). So after
dinner we went to Crenshaw Avenue way in the black area of L.A. where
Brad Branson who does photographs for Interview was giving his second
weekly party. He’s doing it like a club, but with friends’ names on the list.
And it was actually great, he had all the cute kids there and it was two
floors and a garden part and some people said that Madonna had been there
right before we got there. Fred was with Rupert Everett, and Nando
Scarfiotti was there, and Susan Pile and Paul Jasmin and Toni Basil. And all
these kids were coming over to me, and it was fun. I was keeping an eye out
for someone to fill the new vacancy as my New York Wife. And Mary
Woronov was there and I never have anything to say to Mary. I can’t ever
really forgive her for being such a creep about Chelsea Girls in the sixties,
for demanding money—saying she wouldn’t sign a release until she got it.
She squeezed around $1,000 out of us. She was talking to that screenwriter
named Becky Johnson—she’s a friend of Jon’s. She and Mary were both in
the GQ article on “The Most Eligible Women in Hollywood.” Whatever
that means. The most desperate, I guess.
Sunday, March 31, 1985—Los Angeles
In the morning we went to look at buildings all along Sunset for a new
Interview office. We looked at one big elephant that’s $800,000 and there’s
one for $1 million and one for $400,000. So that took a long time.
Then it was the night of the big Love Boat Thousandth Guest Star party
at the Beverly Hilton. Fred was taking Rupert Everett but at the last minute
Rupert cancelled, he said, “My tuxedo is crumpled.” And Jon picked me up
and we went over there. Had my picture taken for fifteen minutes with Joan
Collins, who then never went in to the dinner, I don’t think, because nobody
saw her in there. But it was just packed.
One of Aaron Spelling’s daughters was at our table, in her teens or
twenties, and Troy Donahue who now has short blond-white hair. I
reminded him of that time in the early seventies when he came up to 33
Union Square. He said, “What you guys did to me that day! Your elevator
was broken so I had to go up in the freight elevator in the back, and it
opened into this dark room where you were screening a movie and I had to
walk out from behind the projection screen, and everybody was facing the
screen watching movies, and I stumbled over everybody sitting on the floor
in the dark, and I was on acid….”
They introduced a lot of stars and then finally out came Lana Turner, the
thousandth guest star, who had given them a hard time by being so late, and
that’s why dinner was late. And then they brought me up on the stage with
Carol Channing and Ginger Rogers and Mary Martin. And for some reason
they didn’t mention the portrait they commissioned me to do of Lana. But
it’s finally scheduled for me to shoot the picture on Thursday.
Peter Duchin’s orchestra played. He’s another one of the guest stars on
the boat this week. So it’s Peter Duchin, Tom Bosley, Marion Ross, Cloris
Leachman, Andy Griffith, Raymond St. Jacques, Milton Berle, and me.
And signed a lot of autographs for the kooky autograph hounds of
Hollywood. PH and I both took pictures for the Party book.
Monday, April 1, 1985—Los Angeles
Got picked up at 8:15 to go to The Love Boat. Flubbed my lines in the
morning, felt bad about it. Worked all day. Andy Griffith seems bitter to be
on The Love Boat. PH came by about 2:00 and we went into the makeup
room and she opened up her mouth and said, “So who’s playing your drag
queen?” and Raymond St. Jacques whirled around in his chair and gave her
a withering look and said, “It’s not a ‘drag queen.’” And there he was with
lipstick on and everything, and in the original script it had called the role a
drag queen.
Then went back on the set and did the scene where I had to walk up to
the reception desk with Raymond St. Jacques and my “entourage,” and then
as we’re walking off, the Love Boat girl asks Raymond St. Jacques, “How
does an artist know when a painting is really successful?” And he says,
“When the check clears.” And once they did it wrong and it was better—she
said, “When is a painting really finished.” Finally I was done there, about
6:00.
Tuesday, April 2, 1985—Los Angeles
Got up at 5:00 and was picked up by my driver, Jay, at 6:15. Worked all
day, had a scene with Tom Bosley. Got done pretty early, then went to a big
signing of Interviews at a bar called Nippers in the Rodeo Mall, and it was
jammed. I sat upstairs and signed and signed. And Fred was downstairs and
he started drinking and continued drinking, I don’t know why. Some people
brought old issues for me to sign—like from the first year—the Helmut
Berger Damned one, and the Elvis one and the Raquel Welch one. And
actually I think they were ruining them to have me sign them. And John
Stockwell/Samuels was there looking really good, and he was just in from
North Carolina where he was shooting a miniseries, North and South with
Liz Taylor.
It was just mobbed with people. Lots of young kids, didn’t know many
of them. Molly Ringwald came. Lots of champagne. And then went back to
the Bel Air with PH who was keeping me company because I was
depressed. Jon went back to New York, I guess he didn’t want to be linked
with me in L.A. He never gave me keys to his new house, so I guess I’ll
never be staying there, and I’m … Oh, I don’t know. Life is interesting, I
guess.
Wednesday, April 3, 1985—Los Angeles
Got driven to The Love Boat. Talked to Ted McGinley until we broke for
lunch. He’s so good-looking and really charming, all these people out here
are. The wardrobe guy at the studio is really nice to all the stars and never
has a bad word to say. He told PH, “Everyone here just loves Andy,” so that
made me feel good.
And then PH and I walked to Melrose and to the antique stores. And
then we went to L.A. Eyeworks and I picked out some more glasses. About
six pairs.
Had to work until 9:30 on the set, and then the driver took me back, and
gee those guys are so nice. And Fred had already gone to dinner at Sue
Mengers’s, so I followed, and Barbra Streisand was there and she was
dropping names like Archipenko, the sculptor, and she said that Steve Ross
sends them to her, sends her all these valuable things after she admires them
in his place. And she asked how much a portrait was, and I said I just
couldn’t talk about price, and she asked Fred and he said $25,000 and she
said, “Oh really? So cheap?” And she turned to her Baskin-Robbins
boyfriend, and said, “Maybe we should buy one for Steve.”
Barbra’s really skinny but she had three helpings of curry. And she looks
great. She has her hair straight now and her dress showed everything in the
right way. But I think this boyfriend is the one who directed the horrible
video for the song she has out now, “Emotion,” but I’m not sure. And she’s
suing her building in New York because of the roof—it leaks. It’s at 92nd
and Central Park West and she didn’t even remember that she’d invited me
to a party there, this was about seven or nine years ago—Jed and I went—
and she said, “I knew you? Were you famous then, when you came to my
party?” As if she would’ve invited me if I weren’t. And I felt like telling
her, “Yes I was there, and you had name tags stuck on all the food like a
delicatessen— ‘chopped liver’ and ‘gefilte fish,’ and I don’t know, ‘halvah.’
“ It was getting to that point where I might as well have. I told her, “Oh
your jewelry is so small, Barbra, why don’t you get bigger things?” And she
said, “Oy! I bought diamonds for $60,000 a carat and the next day they
dropped to $20,000!” And it’s true, it really happened like that about three
years ago. But I told her that the day they went down to $20,000 she
should’ve bought three more and cut her losses. And Sean Connery was
there but I didn’t talk to him. And Alan Ladd, Jr., who looked sensational.
And they all talk about Jews trying to be WASPs and they were talking
about Woody Allen and Mia Farrow and really putting down Mia.
Thursday, April 4, 1985—Los Angeles
Went to The Love Boat just to drop off some posters, the Indian posters,
because there’s a lot of people I’d missed when I gave them out the day
before, and I could tell who they were because they stopped speaking to me,
they thought I’d passed over them.
Then we went back to the hotel to meet Lana. And she was adorable to
me. She was tipsy and it was like a whole different person. I closed my eyes
and it was like being with Paulette, that kind of attitude. She said, “Give me
a kiss.” And Lana does crystals, too. And she had a cracked rib which she
blamed on a Nolan Miller dress she had that made her trip, but I think she
must have been drunk. She wears a little quarter-inch cross.
Oh, and on The Love Boat the last day, Andy Griffith suddenly got really
happy, very friendly to everybody, and nobody could figure it out after he’d
been so bitter all week. He must’ve had a drink.
Friday, April 5, 1985—Los Angeles—New York
So twelve days of bliss at the most beautiful hotel in the world were coming
to an end and then they really came to an end when we got the $9,500 hotel
bill. We had to pay half of it. I think we were charged for service and for
Fred’s room. But we got lots of portraits. The Spelling wife and Doug
Cramer and Lana.
So the car came and took us to Regent Air. It’s just $100 more than first
class. It’s $800. There were only fifteen people. And you really feel the
turbulence on a small plane. On the 747s you don’t feel anything. The only
famous person was Mark Goodson. The rest were just grand types—a
woman who looked like Milton Berle and a guy with gold chains so he
must have been a Hollywood writer or something (tip $50). They’d showed
two movies in succession on the flight—Protocol and The Cotton Club—
and both of them weren’t hits, but you could see quality in them so it was
sad. And the bathrooms on Regent are three times the size of a normal
bathroom. And there was a girl with a portfolio, either a model or a whore
or something, just bubbling and enthusiastic. And they come and scramble
your eggs right in front of you. When we arrived in New York the airline
had twenty limos waiting. Tipped the driver $20.
So got in and it was 6:00 in the evening in New York and that really
throws you off. I hate it. You’re dead tired but you feel like you have to
have your day. And you call people up but it’s Easter weekend and
everybody’s out of town. But then the phone rang and it was Cornelia
inviting me to dinner at Le Cirque with Jane Holzer. Cornelia is now going
out with Eric Goode of Area, she says he’s trying to break up with Elizabeth
Saltzman whose mother runs Saks.
Monday, April 8, 1985
Went to Dr. Bernsohn. I’m supposed to arrange a date with Dr. Karen Burke
for him. He’s straight. The last girlfriend he had was a body builder but then
he dropped her when she became a healer, because he said he couldn’t see
her healing other people and absorbing all their things and then putting her
hands all over his body after sucking all that up. It’s interesting, isn’t it?
Left twenty-five copies of Interview there. I couldn’t have him included in
our Health issue because treating with crystals isn’t legit.
Jean Michel’s still away on his vacation with Eric-from-Area’s-sister
Jennifer. They went to Hong Kong, maybe. I wonder when they’re coming
back? I mean, how long can you suck dick? … Oh, I don’t know, I guess
I’ve missed out on a lot in life—never pickups on the street or anything like
that. I feel life has passed me by (phone calls $2).
Ther it was busy at the office. Iolas was coming. Then it was too light on
the top floor to trace, then it got dark and rained and then it got light again.
Ran into Crazy Matty on 74th Street and he gave me $.25 and he went
crazy because (laughs) I took it.
Cabbed home ($6) and got off at the corner because I like to walk in
from the block but I’m not going to do it anymore because out of the
shadows jumped Matty, he was waiting in a doorway, and I couldn’t get in
fast enough, he caught me. He went away easily, but I’m not going to risk it
anymore. It means that anybody could come after me like that. He said he
needs a job. So I went it and I had four Reese’s peanut butter cups and a
garlic sandwich and I left the TV on and woke up to Sunrise News.
Thursday, April 11, 1985
Somebody came by the office and was telling me about the book Dotson
Rader wrote on Tennessee Williams so I sent Michael Walsh out to get it
($18.75). And he had all this made-up stuff in it, like that Edie was giving a
blow job to somebody and also eating a girl’s pussy, which would never be
true. And then he said that Tennessee just loved Joe Dallesandro so when
Joe went up to see him Tennessee did his fainting number so Joe would
have to hold him in his arms. God, I just always thought Dotson Rader was
a CIA person. Just that creepy type. And now he’s gone from the Carters to
walking Pat Lawford. I mean, how we met him, in like ‘69, was he took
Blowjob up to screen at Columbia where he said he was going to school.
But even then he looked too old to be a student, so it always made me
wonder.
Lidija came by and I’m all out of shape after not working out for the two
weeks in California.
And there’s a radiologist in the building next door to me. He just bought
a million-dollar machine and they had to knock a wall out to get it in, and I
keep wondering if the radium stuff can get to me, because we share steam
heat. Everybody says the machines are “foolproof.” Sure. And the Polish
Embassy next door, now they want $4 million for it. I guess I should’ve
bought it, when then were asking $1.3.
Had to leave early, cabbed to Radio City Music Hall ($6). The guy
writing the book on Liberace was next to us and he said that Liberace was
really in love with that chauffeur who gave all the interviews to the
National Enquirer and that it really crushed him—Scott Thorsen. Now he
has a new chauffeur. And the show is just magnificent. A rhinestone cape
that shined to the stars. Lots of gay jokes and dirty jokes, and he has all
these little kids who are his protégés who play the piano while he goes on a
break. And the little boys he introduces as “my dear little friend, my best
little friend …” but not the little girls. And he showed a film of his fingers
and talked about each ring.
Sunday, April 14, 1985
Went to church and then went to meet Stephen Sprouse at the Mayfair and
he was nervous about what he was going to ask me and finally he just
blurted it out and I thought he’d been about to ask for my hand in marriage,
but he asked (laughs) for a loan of a million and a half dollars. And I
actually was so happy, it would be great to be in the fashion business. I’m
not going to give him the million and a half myself, but I said I would talk
to Fred about finding investors for him, and then we could have a part of
the business for setting it up.
And Stephen gave me two wigs (tea $25) and went home and talked to
Fred and he agreed it was a good idea.
Called Jon who’s in town and staying at his own apartment on the West
Side, and then walked over across the park to meet him and ran into Archie
and Amos on their day off and they didn’t even recognize me. I was—
crushed. They were off their leashes and they were with Jed and they didn’t
give me a thought. And so met Jon and we went to the Cafe Luxembourg
and had dinner and we didn’t talk much about his new life ($75).
Monday, April 15, 1985
Read about ten different magazines and got so nervous because everything
is so glamorous. Even all the sick people look glamorous in magazines.
Oh, and the Tennessee Williams book that Dotson wrote. Chris Makos
told me that he sees a lot of himself in “David,” the hustler who Dotson
says had both Tennessee Williams and “the Movie Star”—Tony Perkins—
paying his rent. They each thought they were paying it all. So that sure does
sound like Chris, but most of it, I don’t know, it sounds like Dotson just
made it up.
Wednesday, April 17, 1985
Fred was working on the Stephen Sprouse thing, he’s gotten Richard
Weisman interested.
And Eric Goode invited me to a party at Area for (laughs) the “unicorn.”
The unicorn that’s been in all the papers from the circus. PH and I should
cover that for the Party book. It’s funny.
Friday, April 19,1985
It was an all-day crystal day. The big cheese, Dr. Reese, was in town, and
my appointment was for 12:0 at Bernsohn’s—he was taking me to lunch
with Reese and they were going to do my cranium. I asked Reese how he
started in crystals and he said that when he was little, “Mr. Morning” came
to see him. When he was a baby. He saw “Mr. Morning,” but nobody else
did. And then in the army he got interested in electricity and the body and
all this stuff. Reese was talking about his trip where he went around sticking
crystals all over the pyramids and the Wailing Wall. And he eats things like
coffee and doughnuts. But he cures the coffee by passing the crystal over it
ten times. And he says he knows somebody in South Africa who went to the
Wailing Wall who now wants to get his money out of South Africa and do
movies. Reese is Episcopalian, so I feel better with him than with the
Jewish crystal people, somehow, because knowing he believes in Christ I
don’t have to worry that crystals might be somehow against Christ. And his
assistant —this girl—kept asking him, “Should we tell him? Should we tell
him what we want him to do?” And finally Reese said, “Yes.” So the girl
said, “Your forces are with us. You’ve got to come to Tibet with us. You
have the ability to do great things.” And then they do talk about needing
people to support their studies. So do you think they’re going to ask me for
money? That that’s it? Bernsohn is so materialistic—the new laser-beam
record players and the new apartment. Then they tell me I was Chinese in
my other life and that I have to go to Tibet with them…. Look, I know the
people are ridiculous, but it’s the crystals I believe in. They do work. When
you think that these crystals were in the center of the earth and have all this
energy…
Oh, and I got a letter from my niece Eva in Denver that said, “God Bless
You, and by the way I stole your drawings ten years ago, do you want them
back?” In like 1970 when she was living here and taking care of my mother.
She told me she rolled up some of my Flower prints and took them and
they’ve been in her basement. But her letter is so full of God Bless Yous
and Our Blessed Home and Our Blessed everythings that she sounds like
one of the Moral Majority. And my nephew Paul is still in Denver—the ex-
priest who’s married to the ex-nun, and they have two children.
Saturday, April 20, 1985
I got a call from Keith, he wanted to work all day on painting the elephant.
Fred had it painted white so Keith could do a painting on it. This is the
elephant I had to buy for Diana Vreeland’s costume show at the Met for
“Marilyn Monroe” to be riding on. It was pink, and then after the show it
came to Fred at the Factory, and then Jean Michel and Victor painted some
stuff on it, but not much, but still I would’ve kept it a Jean Michel even
though it wasn’t much of one, but Fred thought it would be better as a Keith
Haring, and so Keith is going to paint it, now that it’s white.
Cabbed up for dinner with Cornelia at Mortimer’s ($4). She wasn’t
there, but Cosima von Bulow was there with her father, Claus. He’s
handsome. He said, “Thank you for being nice to me before I was a star.” I
don’t know if he was being funny. I guess he means when he used to come
to lunch at the office when Catherine Guinness was working there. And
then he left and said that he knew Cosima was in good hands. And she’s so
beautiful. I had a good talk with her. She said she didn’t want to be an
actress because her teacher at one of those schools like Brearley
discouraged her after she was in a play—said she was no good or
something. Everybody just comes over to her and asks her about her father.
Absolutely everybody. People who don’t even know her. But she is a good
actress, she handles it well.
Monday, April 22, 1985
My weight is up to 128, I want to get back to 125.
Went over to Sotheby’s, it’s jewelry auctions all week, and the place is
eight-deep in this category now. It seems like everybody is buying at
auction just instead of in the stores. So I guess the stores will be suffering or
they already are. But I’m sure they send people to buy and bid their
category up. And ran into Ivana Trump in the basement looking at the cheap
stuff there.
Oh! And who should I run into at this jewelry auction but my worker
who I can never find, Rupert Smith! I said, “So this is where you spend
your days.” He was shocked to see me.
Oh, and gee, I saw Lee Radziwill on an old cover of Life and she really
was pretty and I could see why Truman wanted her to be an actress.
Wednesday, April 24, 1985
The big news on TV is that Coke is changing their formula. Why would
they do that? It doesn’t make sense. They could’ve just come out with a
new product and left Coke alone. It seems crazy. And all the TV news
shows love it, they’re doing all these stories of people sitting around taste-
testing.
In the morning went to Dr. Bernsohn’s and Bernsohn said that Reese felt
I was a “Janooky,” that he felt I could be the really big one. “Janookys” are
the head crystal people.
Left there and ran into David Whitney and invited him to lunch to find
out about the art business. He said that Peter Brant paid $40,000 for a
Jasper Johns print. For a print!
Vincent was upset because Polygram called and said that Lou Reed
doesn’t want to get back with the Velvets. And Polygram wants to buy our
tapes for $15,000 which isn’t enough. And I mean, I just don’t understand
why I have never gotten a penny from that first Velvet Underground record.
That record really sells and I was the producer! Shouldn’t I get something?
I mean, shouldn’t I? And what I can’t figure out is when Lou stopped liking
me. I mean, he even went out and got himself two dachshunds like I had
and then after that he started not liking me, but I don’t know exactly why or
when. Maybe it was when he married this last wife, maybe he decided that
he didn’t want to see peculiar people. I’m surprised he hasn’t had kids, you
know?
I worked on the Lana Turner portraits, turning this sixty-year-old into a
twenty-five-year-old girl. It took a long time. I wish I had been able to just
work from an old picture and it would’ve been this beautiful painting. But
this way it’s not really a good picture.
Thursday, April 25, 1985
Dr. Bernsohn says he doesn’t want to be associated just with crystals
because he could lose his license—he said that in Massachusetts people
have lost their licenses. But I mean, if you really believe in something, it
seems kind of funny if you won’t take the consequences.
I’m trying to find another store that sells the sculpture of the Last Supper
that’s about one-and-a-half feet—they’re selling it in one of those import
stores on Fifth near Lord & Taylor but it’s so expensive there, about $2,500.
So I’m trying to find it cheaper in Times Square. I’m doing the Last Supper
for lolas. For Lucio Amelio I’m doing the Volcanoes. So I guess I’m a
commercial artist. I guess that’s the score.
Friday, April 26, 1985
Worked all afternoon and was going to work until 8:00 but my light burned
out on the tracing machine so I had to stop. I called Jean Michel to see if he
was invited to Schnabel’s because then I would pick him up, and Shenge
answers and I say I want to know if he’s invited and Shenge says, “Oh, he’s
invited? That’s nice. I’ll go tell him.” And I’m screaming, “No no no!” It
was a birthday dinner for Schnabel’s wife, Jacqueline.
Glued. Cabbed to East 20th Street ($6). And it was great to be back in
the old Union Square neighborhood. Philip Niarchos was there and he told
me he had a baby. And I’d forgotten that he’d gotten married and couldn’t
really remember to who. But then I remembered it’s Victoria Guinness. On
the banking side, I think.
The birthday cake was Italian. Time went fast. Home at 12:15, fell
asleep watching TV.
Saturday,April 27, 1985
I’m trying to think where we could have some videotapes of the Velvet
Underground. Because I mean row with Lou not wanting to get back for a
reunion with the others, I just am thinking that I really should figure out a
way to get money out of that first album. I mean, I produced it!And now
Vincent just found the master tapes! We have the masters! And I’m not
going to worry whether we have the right to use the masters or to make a
video out of our old film clips of them. Just let them try to sue me. You
know?
Keith came to the office to paint on the big elephant, and he did a
beautiful job on it. It’s black and white with a red base. I think I would’ve
liked it better just black and white, but it’s great. Keith’s great. He really is
a cartoonist. And they say he’s like Peter Max, but he’s really not. He has
something else. Peter Max was just a businessman trying to be an artist. He
copied me a lot. And now he gets $100,000 for a portrait. Look. Here’s how
it all works: You meet rich people and you hang around with them and one
night they’ve had a few drinks and they say, “I’ll buy it!” Then they tell
their friends, “You must have his work, darling,” and that’s all you need. I
mean, it’s like Schnabel sitting there with Philip Niarchos. That’s all it
takes. So you get your price established. Get it?
Monday,April 29, 1985
Fred’s gone to Zurich, I don’t know what for. It’s a mysterious trip. Maybe
he’s having his eyes done, or getting those sheep glands. But I don’t know
why he’s doing all these things and not getting his nose done.
Cornelia and also Jay have told me that they’ve seen my Diet Coke
commercial on TV and that I’m in it a lot.
Went to the Tuileries and got the big table in the back, and then this
homely woman came in and a girl came over and said, “You have to be nice
to Roxanne,” and it dawned on me that it was Roxanne Pulitzer and that this
is really the eighties. I mean, after seeing von Bulow, having him come over
and talk to me the other night, and then seeing him on TV crying about
going back to the house at the trial, and now this one, it’s too abstract, you
know—all these courtroom celebrities. I like this. It must be like the
gangsters in the twenties.
Tuesday, April 30, 1985
Went to the Calvin Klein opening. Got there at 11:05 and there was Bob
Colacello standing there looking preppie. His clothes are always perfect and
immaculate, I don’t know how he does it. Calvin’s girls were meaty—small
waists and big hips, that was the new look.
Went to Sotheby’s. Ran into Patricia Neal in the elevator and I asked her
if she was still seeing Barry Landau and she said yes so I didn’t put him
down. She was selling a Bacon and she was upset with the low reserve, she
said—$250,000. I guess she needs the money. She said they sold another
Bacon to send the son to baking school which she said was a waste because
he doesn’t bake. She was walking with a cane. She looks great.
Ran into John Richardson and I began asking him about Andrew Crispo,
and then the TV cameras were around us so we didn’t want them to know
what we were talking about so I began calling Crispo “her” and John got it
right away. He said, “I never knew her really well, I just thought she was a
sleazebag.” And John was talking about the Hellfire Club and I’m surprised
I’ve never been there, I’m surprised I never wound up there some night. But
I can’t stand the smells of those places—even the preppie Surf Club is
tough to take.
I got catalogues, and the painting I did of Happy Rockefeller, an early
one from ‘64, was up for sale. It’s estimated at $30,000 or $40,000, and if
she’d donated it to one of the museums she could’ve gotten a $500,000
writeoff because of the new prices, so I don’t know why she’s selling it.
Maybe it’s the kids. She sold that Nelson Rockefeller one, too, months ago.
And it’s Fashion Week and all around town, everyone’s just a beauty, it’s
so depressing.
Oh, and Victor called me and I said he doesn’t come to visit, and he said
he’ll start coming tomorrow. He lives on 57th Street—he’s with somebody,
he’ll always get by, he still has his big dick.
And I don’t know why Interview is having all these Bruce Weber
editorial photos of naked people. I mean all those pages with no clothes—
no fashion credits?! What’s the point? I don’t get it! We have advertisers to
think about. I’m going to lay down the law: “No more birthday suits.”
Wednesday, May 1, 1985
Went into Vito Giallo’s to look at rare books. Then went to lunch with
David Whitney, and Peter Brant’s back into art again. He bought a
Rosenquist. They’re still underpriced. But they’ll run out of people and give
him a big show and then his prices will go up. I mean, they’re selling David
Salles for as much as Rosenquists!
Thursday, May 2, 1985
Cabbed to 82nd and First ($4) for Bianca’s birthday party. Her boyfriend
Glenn Dubin had called. And Bianca was driving me crazy, saying how
she’s researching my days in Pittsburgh for her book on Great Men, and she
went on and on about how I broke the system, broke the system, broke the
system, and I felt like saying, “Look, Bianca, I’m just here. I’m just a
working person. How did I break the system?” God, she’s dumb.
Friday,May 3, 1985
It was raining out in the morning. Ran around with Benjamin. Had a 1:15
appointment with Stephen Sprouse to see a fashion show that he was
putting on for Vogue and me (cab $6). Went to 860 Broadway, our old loft
space, and it was great to give a cabdriver that address again: “17th and
Broadway.”
They’d divided it into some rooms, and then the front was all painted
gold and there were beautiful models to show the stuff to us and it was fun
and really exciting, and I just want to buy all his clothes.
Then, I’d promised Jean Michel this dinner at Le Cirque. So Benjamin
dropped me and I glued and went over there. He’d invited Eric Goode and
his girlfriend and Clemente and his wife Alba and then when he ordered the
most expensive wine they said they were out of it, and then when he
ordered the next most expensive, they were out of it, too. I don’t think they
wanted to give it to us, see, because it was a free dinner. Sirio’s been telling
me for years he wanted to give me one, so here it was. And they gave all
these excuses and apologies, and then Jean Michel ordered the cheapest
wine, and that they had. And it was actually good. And the next day when
Paige and I went there with Interviews, Sirio was still apologizing. But
anyway, it cost me in tips ($200). Oh, and last time I was at Le Cirque there
was this model there who said he was a friend of Tom Cashin’s and seeing
him there with this slightly older man, at Le Cirque, I mean, it really made
me decide that you can’t go to straight restaurants with just boys, it looks
too funny. You wonder what they’re doing there, they’re a sore thumb.
Monday,May 6, 1985
Ronnie looks so good these days and his art’s still really selling. He’s going
with that Tama Janowitz girl who’s such a fast writer, she writes so many
stories. He’s like Gerard Malanga. They both stay emotionally immature.
Ronnie has a big cock. He services these girls, and he stays young, just like
Gerard—they don’t grow up.
And Debbie Harry called and said that it was a big secret but that she
just signed with David Geffen. And Stephen Sprouse is so happy about that
because he’s been turning down people like Madonna who wanted him to
do clothes for her because Debbie was the one who really started Stephen
and he wanted to be loyal to her, that’s the kind of person he is. So now
she’ll be out there again.
Tuesday, May 7, 1985
Fred called from Europe and said he was coming in today.
Jean Michel said he decided not to do anything for Steve Rubell’s new
club because he asked what he was going to get out of it, and Steve told
him, “It’s for the glory, the prestige.” Can you imagine hearing this from
Steve? I’m still trying to get the drink tickets I’m designing for him
together, so I’ll ask about which day PH and I can tape him for the Party
book as soon as I give them to him so he’ll feel guilty.
Wednesday,May 8, 1985
There was a big Area party. Jean Michel picked me up and we went down
there. And my display window had my Invisible Sculpture in it and Jean
Michel’s stuff looked great—a big record—and Keith and everybody was
there. And the installations were great. And Steve Rubell was walking
around saying, “Great, great,” being so jealous, wishing it were his club.
Thursday, May 9, 1985
I see there’s a Soup Can dress in one of the shows on Broadway because I
see it in the TV ad. I can’t tell which show, maybe it’s Grind. Went to Jean
Michel’s, picked him up (cab $6). And he’s working again and his work is
wonderful, it’s so exciting, and I think he will last.
We went to the Odeon and had dinner and talked with Steve Rubell and
Eric Goode about the club openings and everything and it was fun, and
Steve is getting artists to do things for his new club, the Palladium, and
Keith did a backdrop that can be lowered from the ceiling down to the
dance floor and Steve is sitting there saying, “If it isn’t any good we just
won’t bring it down too often.” I mean … (dinner $240).
And then Steve’s driver took us over to the Palladium and it’s what the
movies in the thirties were all about—dirty on the outside and then inside
these white pristine columns, and everything big and lacquered, blue poles
and stairs like Ziegfeld Follies girls would come down. And Clemente’s
painting a ceiling. But I mean, still, it’s just another place to go, and Area is
already so successful at this, and they change themes all the time, so I don’t
know. He and Ian are just “managing” the club because you can’t have a
police record and own a club. Like we had to be fingerprinted and checked
out when we had our club, The Dom, in ‘65. Everyone went on to Area and
I went home (cab $6).
Gee, Madonna was just a waitress at the Lucky Strike a year ago.
Sunday, May 12, 1985
Jean Michel called, he’s working on his painting for the Palladium. But it’s
collapsible and he can take it away any time he wants.
Monday, May 13, 1985
Ian Schrager called and I finally finished the design for the drink tickets and
Vincent got them Xeroxed and I went over to the Palladium with Benjamin
and showed it to Steve Rubell and PH and I taped Steve for the Party book
for an hour and a half. Got a good tape and went back to the office.
Tuesday, May 14, 1985
The day of the opening night of the Palladium. The day started off with the
problem of Amos being sick. And then the guy painting the roof across the
street came over and said mine needed doing. He got my name from the
super over there, I guess, and I gave him the go-ahead to do it and he did it.
Then he gave me a bill for $4,900. I hadn’t remembered to get an estimate.
My fault. Then I get a note from the neighbor saying my roof is now silver
and that they just can’t stand looking at it. They’re telling the right guy,
right? No silver. Anyway, I told him to repaint it and I asked him how much
that would be and he says it’ll take thirty gallons to spray it and it’ll cost
$1,200. And he does it in five minutes. Five minutes! I thought it would
take hours. And then later he says $1,500 and I reminded him that he’d said
$1,200 before.
So in the midst of all those problems, Benjamin picked me up early and
we cabbed to the office ($4) and the place is so big and spread-out, I ran up
and down stairs, up and down and sideways up and down and sideways.
That’s my life there. That’s what I do for a living since we moved there.
Keith showed up. We were waiting for Kenny Scharf to call to say if he
wanted to go to Stephen Sprouse’s to get an outfit, but then he went on his
own. He got pink Stephen Sprouse low-riders and wore them with a blouse
made by his wife, Teresa. But I don’t think it’s attractive, seeing the crack in
the ass. On girls either. I don’t like it, really.
Then we picked up PH and went down with Keith to the Palladium and
went in the back door on 13th Street and the electricians and construction
people were working fast. We went up to Steve Rubell’s office and the
phones were ringing and he was saying, “There’s no door list, the
invitations all were delivered yesterday and there is no list.” And in between
people were coming in with the list. Then I left after taping some more for
the Party book and taking some pictures. Dropped PH ($5). Went home and
glued.
Picked Cornelia up and she looked beautiful, she got this idea to wear a
long braid and she looked like Britt Ekland or something (cab $6). And
Halston came out for this, that was a big thing. So, anyway, we went in and
stood in a couple of places. And Benjamin was there as Ming Vauze in a
grape-colored strapless with a tulle skirt. And Beauregard who writes for
Details was in drag, too. Boy George was there with Marilyn who’s always
obnoxious, she had a camera. Eric and Shawn from Area were there looking
glum. Chris in a striped outfit was there, he was complaining that the drinks
weren’t free, but Cornelia was getting the Cristal from Dan, Steve’s driver
from New Hampshire, who’s now the “general manager” there, but I don’t
think that’s going to work out because he’s too nice, he’ll never be the type
to manage a place.
And Jean Michel was in a dark mood. He’d bought Jennifer a dress to
wear to the opening and then he didn’t even bring her, he left her home.
And I didn’t lecture him about the heroin he takes because I didn’t want to
have a fight. And I’m worried about Ming turning into an alcoholic,
because I saw what happened with Curley—it starts very happy and lots of
fun but it doesn’t end up that way. And the Palladium, I don’t know, it was
good for opening night but they’re going to have to have the bridge and
tunnel people in there all the time to fill it up. And if it is a success, then
we’ll know there’s no recession.
And the funny thing about putting art in a disco is that in the end, when
you pack all the people in, it doesn’t make a bit of difference. It really
doesn’t. You don’t even see things. And like that Saturday Night Fever
“discotheque room” they have—when it filled up you couldn’t even see
what it was supposed to be, it’s just all bodies dancing and you don’t notice
what anything is.
So Steve Rubell really has a story now, jail and then the Big Comeback.
“I never lost faith,” he says. But he lost hair. Left at 2:30.
Wednesday,May 15, 1985
Well, it was an awful day.
Went to 80th and Second to Dr. Marder’s to see Amos. They’ve still got
him there today. I hope he’s all right. And Dr. Marder made a faux pas and
said he remembered my “beagle.”
Then called the office and they said that the Talking Heads were waiting
for me and I’d forgotten and by the time I got down there (cab $6) the lead
one had left. They’ve friends of Don Munroe’s and he and Vincent were
trying to get them to do video work. But I always felt I’ve known them for
so long. They went to the Rhode Island School of Design.
Cornelia called about eighteen times.
Then right before we left the office, somebody called and said that
Jackie Curtis O.D.’d. He’s gone. And that wasn’t something I wanted to
hear.
Monday,May 20, 1985
After work got ready for the Claudia Cohen party at the Palladium. I was
late picking up Cornelia, she was waiting downstairs. And we cabbed to
14th Street, and it was all limousines.
Saul Steinberg was there with his third wife, Gayfryd, who’s so
beautiful, she looks like the “Draw Me” girl in old magazines. And
Claudia’s mother was there, so glamorous and really beautiful, whereas
Claudia is just “cute.” But it’ll be a while before Ron Perelman trades her
in, and she can help him a lot in the meantime.
The party was all these old guys dancing around with their new young
wives that they traded in for.
And when you came in the door there was a guy holding a candle, and
all along the way up, at intervals, would be another guy with a candle and
then another. And they had drinks in the Mike Todd Room, and then out on
the dance floor they had tables, with flowers on them, and each high flower
had a spotlight on it, and it was beautiful. Like if the flower was blue, it
would have a blue light and be bluer. It looked like glitter. And if it was
pink, it would have a pink light on it and be pinker. And there were chairs
sprayed silver. Five glasses for each person. And at the Palladium the sound
is really good. A big stage with a great sound system. And Peter Duchin
played al night. He came over and said hello, but said he was working. But
I think he did stop to have dinner.
Steve Rubell said the other day that Claudia was paying the Pointer
Sisters $100,000. They came on after the dessert and did six or eight songs.
And I had the best seat, right in front of them at table 7. Cornelia was at
table 1 with Roy Cohn and his boyfriend, who was wearing a blue tuxedo
that was half leather. Boy George and Marilyn came in at the end. Cornelia
and Marilyn hit it off and instead of leaving with me she went off dancing
with them.
The food was pretty good—Glorious Food. But they don’t have the real
beauties for waiters anymore. You aren’t knocked out. Now they have sort
of the thirty-five look. Somebody else must be picking them because they
used to look like Steve Rubell had hand-picked them—that look. And the
Glorious Food waiters wear white gloves now, I guess Glorious makes them
in order to prevent the fist-fucking from spreading. It’s a good idea because
I spotted a friend of Victor’s among them. The only glittering personality
there was Geraldo Rivera.
Tuesday,May 21, 1985
My day started off with destruction. I picked up this rug and the moths had
eaten it right through. They’re all in the back. I’m going to spread more
moth stuff. So far they only got an Indian rug, but they could eventually get
to my Stephen Sprouse things.
Benjamin came and we decided to walk down Madison to the office. We
didn’t have any Interviews. Rupert arrived at 6:30 and worked a little. His
boyfriend picked him up in Rupert’s Rolls Royce, he was out there waiting
like a nagging wife, I guess Rupert wants that, though. Poor Rupert is
henpecked. And I’m just waiting for them to have the big fight. The guy is
taking him for a ride. So there he was waiting in this grand left-side-driving
Rolls. And they gave me a ride home because it was raining and hard to get
a cab.
And during the day I bought lots of newspapers for the front pages—
they had the sextuplets on ($2). And People magazine has the article on the
artists and it has “Andy Warhol, fifty-eight.” And then “Keith Haring,
twenty-two.” So if anybody asks, just tell them I’m eighty. Always, “He’s
eighty.”
Wednesday,May 22, 1985
I found more moths.
Andy Friendly still won’t give the money for our TV show, so I guess
we’ll just do it on our own with Paige trying to get advertisers.
Went down to Keith’s party at the Palladium and it was packed, that
huge place—packed!
Then decided to go to Private Eyes, the video club. It was their Gay
Night and jammed, wall to wall. These kids, if you saw them on the street
you would never think they were gay. They look like L.A. kids. Stayed
there a few minutes. Then got home at 2:00 (cab $6).
Thursday, May 23, 1985
Somebody told me that Jackie Curtis had a long obituary in The New York
Times. I still keep wanting to think it was a put-on like his weddings. They
said he was thirty-eight, so I must have met him when he was what?
Eighteen?
Here from Dusseldorf, the partner of Hans Mayer, came to lunch at the
office. And Fred and I had words because he was being so elegant and
grand and said to me in right front of Hete, “Why don’t you tell Hete how
you really feel about the gallery not paying you.” You know, so I was stuck.
Fred really is bored. He wants to do a change, I guess. Like Paul Morrissey
did.
And then Paige picked me up, but she was only in a taxi, not a car. And I
said I’d said to get “a car” and she said, “Well this is a car” (cab $9). Then
got to the Apollo and there were millions of cops. It was the Hall and Oates
taping and it was benefit for the Negro College Fund. Hall and Oates came
on and they were great, did all their hits. Boy George arrived with Cornelia
and they were in a box and he was throwing kisses. And then two of the
Temptations came on and jammed with them, and they were great, and you
could really see that that’s who Hall and Oates copied. And when it was
over we left and the cops were just crazy for Boy George. I’ve never seen
anything like it. They just all wanted his autograph so much, and Marilyn
said to one of them, “I want to have an affair with you,” and he said, “I have
someone you’ll really like.” I mean, I really have never seen that kind of
thing going on with the cops.
Saturday,May 25, 1985
Walked to work. Kenny Scharf came by. And he said he doesn’t know what
to do because he likes to feel free and do whatever he wants but he does
love Teresa and the baby, but he feels he has to have that free feeling. So
Kenny was there for hours and then left at 7:00.
And you know, in the pizza place next to the office on 33rd Street, the
one that’s owned by Koreans or Chinese, it was so sad, because they were
cleaning up and throwing out all the stuff from, maybe, the basement, books
and things, and I wanted to go through it all but I didn’t. And this woman
was holding these two big white dogs and I don’t know if she belonged
there or if she didn’t. You don’t know about people. Everybody just does
their own stuff on their own scale. There was a naked baby in the middle of
the floor.
Sunday,May 26, 1985
Another hot day. Rode around the city and over to New Jersey with Chris
and Randall. Peter and Chris are trying to decide whether they should keep
it together or not. And Randall is a gymnast who came to New York to see
the world and the first person he sees is Chris so you know what part of the
world he’s seeing.
Then went home and watched TV. Deceptions with Stefanie Powers. I
went to sleep, facing life alone.
Wednesday,May 29, 1985
Was picked up by Benjamin and there was a note from Crazy Matty at the
door. He’s been leaving notes for Brigid at the office.
Then cab ($4) to meet Paige for her lunch at the office with some
advertisers. And the reason Paige sells so many ads is she actually enjoys
the people she meets from selling ads, she likes entertaining them for
business, which not many people can do.
Then Jean Michel came over to paint and he was laughing and kidding
around and Paige called up to me on the phone and screamed, “Get him out
of here!” And I just didn’t know what to say, she hung up before I could
even think, and then she just left the office. She was calling Jean Michel a
creep and everything.
Cabbed to Canastel’s ($5) to Katie Ford’s dinner where she said she’d
have male models. And this is the place where the guy wanted me to do a
mural for the wall but wasn’t going to give us enough credit—I was going
to do it with Jean Michel, but eventually the wall would’ve been worth
more than the whole restaurant. But this place was great, just jammed, and
pink lights and just really good food and steamed vegetables for appetizers
that were as big a serving as the main course at the Odeon. Like California
food.
So I was with this model with blond hair and piercing black eyes, and he
knew all about “walk-ins.” They’re when somebody else walks into your
body. It makes sense. It happens if you’re having this trauma or if you’re
sick or something. And you know, when I was little I remember I was really
sick and didn’t like school and had to be dragged there and then one day I
changed—after that I loved school and everything, so I think somebody
may have walked into me then…. I’m not clear on who the walk-ins are.
Souls. And I’m not clear on where they come from.
Monday,June 3, 1985
Benjamin picked me up and we went to the West Side to Dr. Linda Li. She
told me Fantastik is poison, not to use it (phone $2). Decided to stay out as
long as possible because it’d been a couple of days of me being cooped up,
and it was a beautiful day. Went to Bagel Nosh ($10) and stood in line for
scrambled eggs and it was so dirty but it was okay, I faced it. Wandered to
46th Street. Saw the sights. Took pictures of drunken ladies sleeping on
park benches and felt that life was just so awful. And I don’t know what I
try to look good for. Everybody when you look at them really close is so
awful-looking. So animalistic.
And then it was time to go to the opening of my Reigning Queens show
down on West Broadway and Greene Street. This is the show that George
Mulder got together. Some one-night Dutch benefit thing. Rupert’s “wife”
picked us up in the Bentley and the missus was disgruntled. And then we
got down there and parked next to Victor’s limousine. Victor just got some
kind of settlement from Halston. I think he had to sign a paper saying he
wouldn’t talk about Halston ever, but I mean, what does that mean? He’s
happy now that he’s got this wad of money, but when it’s gone …
And I’ve hit rock bottom. This show, I have sunk to the bottom of the
gutter. The rock bottom of the skids of the end of the line. It was like having
an opening in somebody’s rent-controlled apartment. I mean, they had a
paper covering a mirror! And they had hors d’oeuvres that I think they were
making in the kitchen. And these Dutch TV people were all around. It was
so lowdown and tacky. Fred wasn’t there. He’d already left, didn’t want to
face me, I guess he was in shock. We found him dazed, wandering along
Christopher Street later on, on his way up to the Ballroom for the Scavullo
benefit for the church in Greenwich Village. We just ran into him on a fluke
and gave him a ride.
So we left there and went up to the Scavullo thing and I sat down but
then Cornelia was screaming that there was a fashion show and that I was
supposed to be in it, so somebody grabbed me and took me to the basement,
and it was every famous beautiful model and the tits were flying all over the
place. And I was in Stephen Sprouse, and Cornelia and I got the biggest
applause. And Boy George was in the audience and Marilyn, and they said
let’s go to dinner, they had a limo, but I went in a cab anyway, up to Mr.
Chow’s (cab $6).
It was me and Benjamin and Boy George and Marilyn and Cornelia and
Couri Hay and they all act like horrible brats—Couri screamed across the
restaurant to Dianne Brill, “Get your pussy over here,” and this is a place
with just regular people, and then Cornelia would say to somebody who’d
told them to please be quiet, “You look like a dried duck,” or something like
that. Just awful. And then Marilyn saw Mary Wilson sitting at a table and
went over and Benjamin just collapsed because she’s his favorite singer,
and then she came over and thanked me for going to her comeback concert
a few years ago (dinner $400).
And Boy George and Marilyn like me I think because they can say mean
things and then I’m not quick enough to think of a comeback, so I’m not a
threat to them.
Wednesday,June 5, 1985
Picked up by Benjamin. Put out all the mothballed things onto the street and
was shocked by how much there was. Dr. Linda Li and Dr. Bernsohn both
told me that mothballs were absolute poison. Bernsohn said he wouldn’t get
within forty feet of them.
And I asked Bernsohn for ideas for paintings. And I brought up “walk-
ins” and told him how I think somebody might have walked into me when I
was shot, in addition to somebody maybe walked irto me when I was little.
But somehow these walk-in theories don’t make total sense to me. He said
that if your body is really weak and sick nobody will walk into it. And then
I said, “But then people could be walking into you the rest of the time.” I
don’t get it yet.
Cabbed with Jon who’s back in town for a couple of days to 32nd Street
to see Rambo. And the movie was ridiculous. It was like Friday the 13th
but with explosions.
Thursday, June 6, 1985
Went over to Macy’s to judge the Madonna look-alike contest. They
expected 200 girls but there were only 100. They’d spent a fortune, these
girls, on the clothes and jewelry. It was over pretty fast, by 5:10, and it’d
started at 4:30.
Went to Radio City Music Hall for Madonna’s concert (cab $6). And the
show was so great. Just so simple and sexy and Madonna is so pretty. Now
she’s thinner and just so great. And afterwards we went downstairs where
there was a private party, the level with the ladies’ rooms. And Madonna
came down with Jean Michel—I guess he’d gone backstage. And she was
fun. She said she was going to the Palladium and might go to Keith’s
dinner, and she was so sweet and nice. So we went and drove to Iso on 11th
Street and Second and then Madonna did arrive, she came in a truck. And
they sat her next to me, and she was just great. They were teasing her about
her false eyelashes, saying they were bigger than Louise Nevelson’s. And
everyone was so thrilled, the waiters were on the floor. She was drawing
cocks on Futura’s pants.
Monday,June 10, 1985
The morning started off with the doorbell ringing so loud and it was Crazy
Matty and the neighbors are really getting upset from him hanging around
all the time. When Benjamin came he went out to talk to him and Matty has
his days all mapped out—his schedule is as big as mine. Like at 1:00 he’s
going to go bother Warren Beatty at the Carlyle, at 3:00 he’s going to make
a nuisance call to Woody Allen, then at 8:00 he has the Emmys to attend
where he’ll stand behind the police lines and scream at Celeste Holm on her
way in, things like that. I gave him $.25 to call Brigid at the office and
divert him away from me.
I just don’t know what to send Leo for the show he’s doing. Anything I
send it’ll just look like the stuff by the kids who’re making it that way now,
only they do it better than me. So nobody will even want to copy it. And
Jean Michel said he got a huge bill—like maybe I think $100,000—from
his dealer in L.A., Gagosian, for his stay there when he was living so high.
Thursday, June 13, 1985
Then got a cab and the driver knew all about me, said he’d just seen Bad on
video and knew all about the building on 33rd Street. He said, “You made
my night.” That’s a good song title [singing]: “I made your night, I made
your night,” so I had to give him a big tip ($7).
Friday,June 14, 1985
During this morning I went down to the Seagram’s building for that “How
to Paint” video thing that the computer company, Commodore, wants me to
be a spokesman for. And I guess I got the job. I was afraid that they were
going to put a spotlight on me and have me draw in front of 700 people, but
it was okay. It’s a $3,000 machine that’s like the Apple thing but can do a
hundred times more.
Wednesday,June 19, 1985
In the morning Amos still wasn’t feeling well. I’d given him part of a
Valium when he was yelping the day before and I thought he’d be fine.
When I called to ask Jed to take him to the vet he wasn’t in town, so I took
him myself (cab $3). Dr. Marder wasn’t there so we saw Dr. Greene, then
dropped Amos back home. Then went up to Bernsohn’s and that was
interesting. I told him that the crystal I’d put in the kitchen at the office to
repel roaches wasn’t working, that we were getting more roaches than ever.
He said he was going to call Dr. Reese about it, and later, in the afternoon,
he called and said that the crystal was now reprogrammed to un-reverse
itself, so now we’ll see the proof. But anyway, while I was still there, the
most interesting thing was that he told his secretary Judy to get up on the
table and pretend to be Amos and he asked her what was wrong with her
and she said that she had a crushed vertebra on her left or right side. And I
hadn’t told him! And she told him that farther down she also had maybe an
ulcer. And then Judy said she didn’t want to be a dog anymore, that she
wanted to go back to human, so she did. He said to give Amos comfrey for
the ulcer.
There was a big lunch at the office. The Mosses were coming, from
A&M records—the wife I did the portrait of. Their son is going to acting
camp.
Thursday, June 20, 1985
Amos still wasn’t feeling well. I let him run around but I don’t know if I
should have.
Ran into David Whitney and Michael Heizer and they said to come
along to the Whitney to look at what they were doing. And I did and I got so
jealous. People can walk on it. Silkscreened textures on big pieces of
cardboard. Big like a house. And they’re just going to throw it out after the
show’s over. It’s a hill formation.
And somebody told me that my old friend Ted Carey who I once split
the cost for a Fairfield Porter portrait with—he painted us both together—
has you-know-what.
I left work early (cab $6) and when I got home Paige was calling, crying
hysterically that the big opening she was having that night for her Mexican
artist Julio Galan was banned by the board of directors of the co-op building
where she was having it. It was in the same building that got mad when she
gave the black graffiti artists a show. I told her that she just had to buck up
and reschedule the show someplace else.
So I cabbed down to Indochine for a dinner for Elizabeth Saltzman.
Shawn Hausman had a beautiful fifties car and after the dinner he drove us
over to Area where they had these kids on skateboarding loops. It looks so
dangerous, like a twenty-five or thirty-foot arc, fifteen feet high. One kid
fell when the light went in his eye.
Wilfredo who used to work for Armani who works for us was there and
his brother was picking him up to take him home to New Jersey. Because
Wilfredo got kicked out of his apartment and now he’s got to go home to
New Jersey every night, and his mother’s very careful and makes his
brother come into the city to pick him up and the brother likes it because
that way he gets to go to all the clubs with Wilfredo. So then went to the
Palladium. Wilfredo’s brother drove. Cornelia was there with Philippe
Junot. Stayed five minutes and went home (cab $6).
Friday,June 21, 1985
I yelled at Brigid a lot yesterday. She threw out an important piece of
artwork. It was a doodle that Michael Viner wanted made into a painting for
his wife Deborah Raffin.
Lunch was for the Krizia people. And Paige by then was a new person,
completely recovered from the night before when she had to stand in front
of the building for four hours telling people as they a rrived that the art
show was cancelled, and somebody who was there said that each time Paige
would have to say it, she’d burst out crying all over again. I asked her how
she was able to recover so quickly and she said it was part of her job. So
that was good. I told her she should put her advertising commission money
into a loft and have four or five art shows a year there.
I decided to go to the Whitney Tower wedding which was at 5:00 at St.
Bart’s. Fred was an usher (cab $3.50).
The bride looked beautiful. I was sitting next to Charles Evans. Nick
Love from L.A. read a good paragraph from the Bible. He’s got the style of
the thirties which I think will come back sometime for actors. I wasn’t
invited to the reception. Had tennis shoes on and walked uptown with Joan
Quinn.
Called Jean Michel but he hasn’t called me back, I guess he’s slowly
breaking away. He used to call me all the time from wherever he was.
Saturday,June 22, 1985
Changed into black tie before Roy Cohn’s birthday party. Called PH to say I
was leaving immediately to pick her up but then noticed a note from Matty
outside the door so I waited a few minutes and peeked out the window and
didn’t see him, made a dash to Park and got a cab. Picked up PH. Got to the
Palladium (cab $5.50). We were at a table with Vera Swift and Philippe
Junot and Jacqueline Stone and some prince from Austria and Vera’s
daughter Kimberly and a man I didn’t know and two women I didn’t know.
Said hello to Barbara Walters who just announced her engagement a few
weeks ago, and she looks really good.
And everybody was saying how sick Roy looked, and that he was dying.
Steve Rubell told me the other week that Roy had cancer and was in
remission—that it wasn’t AIDS, but regular cancer. He didn’t look well.
And Jacqueline Stone was going on, worried about her son, Oliver,
who’s now in El Salvador directing a movie he wrote and nobody’s heard
from him in a week. And I remembered later that Boaz Mazor was the star
of Oliver Stone’s first movie and he once told me that Oliver’s mother was
a stage mother on the set handing out poppers to the actors to help them act.
And then after dinner the politicians’ speeches started. Stanley Friedman
from the Bronx gave a speech and mentioned Lebanon and the hostages
there from flight 847 and said we can’t forget the trouble spots in the world
like Afghanistan and Nicaragua, while we’re having our nice dinner at the
Palladium.
And Philippe Junot during all the political talk just sat there practically
asleep. But when somebody at the podium introduced a “twenty-nine-year-
old Donald Trump,” Philippe’s head popped up and he said, “Donald’s not
twenty-nine!” And then the last speaker was Roy himself and before he
started to talk the two big blocks of TV monitors came down and they were
all filled with vintage footage of Roy’s face from the fifties giving his anti-
Communist speeches. And that was exciting, it was the best thing. And they
brought out a big fat cake and then a Kate Smith record was blasting over
the speakers with “God Bless America” and the “flag up there” that all the
speech-givers kept referring to came down and it was actually shredded red,
white, and blue banners. Plastic. Talked to Richard Turley and the lady who
invented Weight Watchers. And then the dancing music started and
everybody got up. And by this time the kids they’d let into the club were
overhead looking down from the balcony on the dinner.
Wednesday,June 26, 1985
Went into the Whitney to see the Michael Heizer show because I wasn’t
invited to the dinner that night for the opening, which I thought was so
strange, because there it was my good friends David Whitney and Michael
Heizer planning this whole dinner with a list and everything and I wasn’t
even on it. And David was cool to me. I mean, here’s this man who wants to
marry me when Philip Johnson kicks the bucket and he didn’t even invite
me to the dinner. He was wearing the Stephen Sprouse tie I gave him. And
Tom Armstrong doesn’t invite me to anything anymore because he doesn’t
have to court me now that the Whitney’s got all my old films (phone $4, cab
$5.50).
Thursday, June 27, 1985
Stuart Fivar is casting bronzes for Stallone and he doesn’t know what to do
because he just saw an original of the one he’s casting going at auction for
cheaper than he’s casting the copy for Stallone for (laughs), so he doesn’t
know what to do, he’s afraid Stallone will see it, too. And Stuart’s girlfriend
Barbara Guggenheim was out there in L.A. selling art to Stallone for hours
and hours when PH was trying to wring just twenty more minutes out of
him for her cover interview for our Movies issue.
Oh aid I forgot to say that on 45th Street I ran into a lady who said her
father delivered Ted Carey and his brother and she asked how he was and I
didn’t have the heart to tell her he had AIDS.
Friday,June 28, 1985
The doorbell was ringing and the rain had started and Benjamin came to
pick me up, but then Matty was waiting for me outside. I gave him a dollar
and told him to (laughs) call Warren Beatty. He’s really skinny now. We
gave him an Interview and he followed us to Versace and he read it outside
while he was waiting and he became so engrossed that we were able to slip
past him, he didn’t even see us. Little did we know that he’d be waiting for
us downtown on 33rd Street when we got to the office. Benjamin reasoned
with him and now Matty’s going to consider giving me the weekends off.
Cornelia called and she tried to tell me a “secret” but I told her don’t
bother, that it was so obvious that she was seeing Philippe Junot. All these
girls want to see what Caroline gave up.
Saturday,June 29, 1985
Bianca was hit by a car in East Hampton while she was trying to learn how
to ride a bike. Gold and Fizdale hit her. They’re those two old dual pianists
who write about cooking together now. Steve Rubell sees a big settlement.
Sunday,June 30, 1985
It was Gay Day parade day. Got in a cab and the driver was a happy faggot,
he said, “Hi! Did you go to the parade?” and I just said, “What parade?”
and he dropped the subject, talked about the weather (cab $5). And on the
news the hostages from TWA 847 were free, and then they weren’t free and
then they were free.
Stephen Sprouse called and we made plans to meet. I said I’d pick him
up at 9:00 and we’d go down to Odeon for dinner (cab $7). It was sort of
empty (dinner $70). Then we walked over to Area. Then I remembered
there was a Gay Day party at the Palladium. We started to walk up. Saw
some cops by the stable where they keep their horses on Varick Street. They
were just back from the parade, laughing. One of them had his nightstick
pointing out from his basket and they were laughing about their experiences
of the day. A cute one said hi to me (cab $7).
Tuesday,July 2, 1985
It was Emanon the fourteen-year-old rapper and the little Latosha girl at the
office for lunch, and Emanon’s so cute, he really is. I think he should
expand from rapping into singing. And Latosha does sing like Ella
Fitzgerald. I want to adopt little black kids.
Keith called me and wanted to know if our date for Jerry Hall’s birthday
party was still on. He said he’d pick me up at 9:00. Worked till 8:00. Keith
picked me up in red patent-leather shoes and we went to Mr. Chow’s (cab
$9). Mr. Chow’s is fighting having to unionize, because he said he needs the
kind of young attractive waiters that you just get off the street. I had a glass
of champagne. Jed was there with Alan Wanzenberg. And I notice that
Jerry’s birthday parties have gotten more hardcore every year. It used to be
her model girlfriends and their boyfriends, but now it’s heavy-duty, no
model friends.
Thursday, July 4, 1985
Stayed home during the day, the dog was sick. Watched the soaps and
they’re all great, handsome guys and good-looking girls, and they really
know how to kiss.
The Forbes boat was parked at 30th Street and the East River, not the
Hudson River like I thought. And when Stephen Sprouse and Cornelia and I
got there there were all people on the highway screaming my name as I
went in so that distracted me and I didn’t take pictures.
Peter Brant was on the boat, he told me that he’d tried to buy the Voice,
that he’d really wanted it, but that he lost out when Leonard Stern paid $55
million because he’d only offered $51 million.
Anne Bass was there with her husband Sid and kids, and I didn’t make a
fuss over them which I should have. I sat with Mick and Jerry while I ate.
Watched the fireworks and it was like they were floating by the boat.
“Suzy” was there with her son, and I didn’t know she had one. Then the
boat left and sailed around the tip of Manhattan up to where it usually docks
on 23rd Street in the Hudson. Going fourteen miles an hour.
And Cornelia’s still with Philippe Junot and Mrs. Vreeland is mad at her
for wasting her life, which she is, but she says she doesn’t want to get
married, she just wants to have fun.
After I got home Stephen called and said, “Thank you for a really good
time,” and for a few seconds I (laughs) couldn’t think who it was.
Saturday,July 6, 1985
Got up to get to work but decided it wasn’t going to happen and I stayed in
and read. Tried to read Dominick Dunne’s book The Two Mrs. Grenvilles
but it’s too boring because it’s not real and it’s not fiction. Then I started
reading the copy of Savage Grace that Steve Aronson autographed for me.
It’s about the Bakelite woman and her beautiful fairy son who killed her,
and it’s all the real society people talking and these fascinating letters from
the father—I guess someone will make a good movie out of it because the
people are glamorous and it’s a good story—mothers who want their sons to
be fairies so they sleep with them.
Told Stephen to meet me at 7:30 sharp at Diana Vreeland’s for dinner. It
was a huge rainstorm but it stopped at 7:40 and I walked over. Stephen
Sprouse was already there and sweet. He’d brought Mrs. Vreeland some
outfits. I had my tape recorder on and she came in and said, “What’s that?”
and I (laughs) told her, “A camera,” because I thought she couldn’t see. And
she said, “No it’s not.” So then I told her it would be like old times, taping
again, and she said okay. She said she has a girl sit in the room with her
while she sleeps. I thought that was so strange, that she would want that.
But then, I guess she is sick, so … She had four vodkas and she smoked
about fifteen cigarettes.
Andre Leon Talley was coming the next day to read the Rothschild book
to her, she said. She can’t remember names, but then she never could. And
the funniest thing was she said that someone who was going through things
for her found her birth certificate, and it was August 29th and not
September 29th, the date she’d been celebrating all her life because that’s
when her parents had told her her birthday was. So she’s a Leo, she finds
out.
Monday,July 8, 1985
I forgot to say that over the weekend I saw an old Naked City episode from
the sixties on TV that had Sylvia Miles and Dennis Hopper, and it was
during the filming of this episode that I met Dennis, when Henry
Geldzahler took me up to 128th Street on the East Side where they were
shooting it, and I guess Sylvia must have been there, too, but I didn’t know
her then. And she was playing old whores already.
Fred was just back from L.A. and we may be getting the building off
Doheny and Melrose for our Interview office out there. It’s a house, but it’s
zoned for business. Down from a million to $500,000. And he’d said at first
that it didn’t need work, but now he said that it needs air conditioning and
wiring.
Dr. Bernsohn told me that Jon is going to Tibet with Dr. Reese—for his
health, maybe, I guess. And to research his scripts on crystals, I guess. I
don’t know … he’s completely gone from New York now. He’s just
working out there in L.A. I guess I’ll find someone better to work on movie
projects with. I mean, that was the main reason I got so involved with him,
so …
Anyway, Dr. Bernsohn said he’d been to Sedona, Arizona, that and his
back was cured. I didn’t know anything was still wrong with it. Sedona is
one of the three big points. The others are the pyramids and the the
Bermuda Triangle.
Went and looked at the September Movies issue of Interview that they’re
working on, and I didn’t like the illuminated manuscript kind of lettering
that heads each category—I think they should’ve just done a new kind of
modern type, not the curlicue look. And the Stallone pictures that Herb Ritts
took don’t look any different than movie stills, there’s nothing that makes
them unique, because Stallone’s just in his boxing trunks. Why didn’t Ritts
at least have him hold a hanky in one shot or something, to establish that it
was our picture, not just some still from Rocky IV.
Tuesday,July 9, 1985
I met a guy from Paramount last night named Michael Bessman, and I
guess he has the job that everybody wants—in charge of development. I
think he must have just gotten the job that Jon was wanting. I don’t know if
Jon would have been good at it. He never liked any of the projects I thought
of, but now that he’s trying to go into production, I’m just waiting—I’ll
probably see my ideas being announced as his new projects. Like the
“Music Hotel,” that one I was doing with Maura Moynihan. Jon always
thinks it was his idea after the movie comes out. Like Footloose. He knew
Dean Pitchford, the friend of Peter Allen’s, and he remembered that they
were all talking about it at a party once and then after Dean Pitchford did it
as a movie Jon would always say it’d been his idea, too. But these things
are all in the weather, and it’s whoever does it that counts.
They were telling me that Cosima von Bulow cancelled her shoot for
Interview because she got a sunburn. But I mean, she lives in Newport, and
she doesn’t know about the sun?
Sent Benjamin out on a simple errand and it cost me a thousand dollars!
I’d given him $2,000 to go get the large-size sculpture of the Last Supper
that we’d bargained the guy down from $5,000 to $2,000 on. So he went
there and it wasn’t there anymore. The Last Supper comes in small,
medium, and large. So then at this other place, I’d gotten the guy down
from $2,500 to $1,000 for the medium. But Benjamin forgot we’d gotten
them down, and he bought the medium one for $2,000! He didn’t
remember! It was actually the size I really wanted, anyway, but he wound
up giving the second store for the medium one what he was supposed to
buy the large one for. So this means he hasn’t got a head for figures—a
thousand dollars is a lot to waste. I just couldn’t believe it, after I’d haggled
so hard.
Went to Marylou’s on 9th Street for a models dinner (cab $5). Joey
Hunter was there. And all the boy models at one end of the table were
desperate that they didn’t have girlfriends, and then the girl models were at
the other end of the table tired and complaining that they didn’t have
boyfriends.
Wednesday,July 10, 1985
I’d redone the portrait of a lady from Boston and we had lunch for them so
they could see the new ones. I learned a lesson: I should never show a
portrait when I know it isn’t right. The first time around I knew that I’d
made her look like a horse, and still I showed it to them. And the thing is,
this woman’s actually nice-looking, it’s just one of those people who
photographs all the wrong way—all the bumps are in the wrong places.
Like the bump of her nose just goes the complete wrong way in pictures,
and it’s actually a perfect nose in life. But now they loved them, they took
three.
Jean Michel came by and did a masterpiece upstairs. He wants to get
work done before he goes away again. He had Jay filling in paintings, and
I’m going to have Jay fill in, too. He tried to hire Jay away, but Jay didn’t
want to work for him.
Saturday,July 13, 1985
Watched the Live Aid thing on TV. Bobby Zarem’s office had been calling,
wanting me to go down there, but when you’re with that many big
celebrities you never get any publicity. Later on that night Jack Nicholson
introduced Bob Dylan and called him “transcendental.” But to me, Dylan
was never really real—he was just mimicking real people and the
amphetamine made it come out magic. With amphetamine he could copy
the right words and make it all sound right. But that boy never felt a thing—
(laughs) I just never bought it.
Someone gave me a copy of Leo Ford’s sex video and I put it on when I
got into bed and he was massaging this limp sausage of his for so long and
there was another guy there doing the same thing with his limp one, and I
fell asleep and when I woke up they were (laughs) still doing it.
Monday,July 15, 1985
Saw Dr. Li and had fun. We were going to go back to the East Side but it
was such awful muggy weather that we just went downtown. A girl came by
with the Edie look, but I told her there wasn’t anything I could do for her. I
guess she wanted me to wine and dine her and change her life, but I mean
…
Gael came in and she’s losing weight. I told her she should start going
on TV shows to promote Interview and make it sound glamorous.
Tina Chow went out today and got her crystal. The crystal in the kitchen
at the office still isn’t working—it still isn’t repelling the roaches. Vincent
says the roaches even run around the clock in the stove, under the glass. I’m
going to bring it back to Bernsohn again.
Thursday, July 16, 1985
Cabbed to meet Ric Ocasek of the Cars who’s doing a solo album, and we
were filming him for our MTV pilot show, Andy Warhols Fifteen Minutes
(cab $6).
And there was a big rainstorm with big hailstones and that was exciting.
We ran around with buckets, putting them under all the holes in the roof.
Worked with Rupert until 8:00.
Then I went to dinner with Susan Mulcahy of the Post’s Page Six. And
you know, I realized watching her last night that she’s gotten more tough.
She’s still sweet and everything, but the job has put her into a power
position, which is weird. She does have to fill up the page and I see her
becoming more like Bob when Bob got aggressive and tough. She acts
more like a man now, and she’s now accepting the idea that she’s beautiful.
Wednesday,July 17, 1985
Ran into Sylvia Miles and I told her that we really had to go together to the
opening of Marianne Hinton’s tromp l’oeil gallery show this coming
Tuesday because it’s called “Opening of a Loo.” So then Sylvia and I can
both finally say we’ve been to the opening of a toilet.
Monday,July 22, 1985
Went up to the Kiss of the Spider Woman screening (cab $5). This is the
movie Jane Holzer produced with that David Weisman, the Ciao Manhattan
person. I can’t stand him so I hate to say it, but I liked the movie. And I
guess people are wanting arty movies now, or something, it’s the right time.
I had to get home early and dye my hair because of my public
appearance at Lincoln Center for Commodore Computers the next day.
Dyed my eyebrows, too. Black. I always dye it black first, and then leave
some white and everything. I’m artistic, sweetheart.
Tuesday,July 23, 1985
The day started off with dread as I woke up from my dreams and thought
about my live appearance and how nothing is worth all this worrying, to
wake up and feel so terrified. Had to be over at Lincoln Center at 9:00, so I
was up at 7:30 (cab $4). Debbie Harry got there before I did. She’s a blonde
again and she’s lost another ten pounds. And she was wearing the outfit
from Stephen Sprouse that I’ve never seen anybody else wear yet—the
shoes glued into the leg stocking. We ran through it, and the easiest part is
running through our thing for the press, that’s so easy. They said we had to
be back there at 5:30.
The whole day was spent being nervous and telling myself that if I could
just get good at stuff like this then I could make money that way and I
wouldn’t have to paint.
Then when I went back there at 5:30 we went on and I thought I was
going to pass out. I forced myself to think about the next job I could get if I
didn’t. Went along and the drawing came out terrible and I called it “a
masterpiece.” It was a real mess. I said I wanted to be Walt Disney and that
if I’d had this machine ten years ago, I could have made it. Then afterwards
people saw the portraits of Debbie and thought those were (laughs) the
Xeroxes.
And the news is full of Rock Hudson having AIDS in Paris. And now I
guess people will finally believe Rock Hudson’s gay. When you’d tell them
before, they wouldn’t believe it.
Thursday, July 25, 1985
The doorbell rang, it was Doc Cox picking me up for the dinner at II
Cantinori with Chris and some Interview contest winners. And I told him
that even though I haven’t been to see him for a while, I’ve been examined
by insurance company doctors so not to worry. These kids looked great
until a real model came along, and then you could see the difference and
you realize that a model is a model.
Then I took everybody over to the Palladium for the sixties party there,
and it was easy to get them all in because Steve Rubell was right at the
door. So we went in and God I hate that place, so packed, so hot. And I
never sweat. Never. But at this thing I started to a little. Every girl who said
hello was an “Edie.” And somehow they never get the hair right—Edie’s
was straight back and dyed like a boy and really white, but they usually
give themselves bangs or something. Everybody gets the Edie look wrong
and I don’t know why. They do something different that’s not the way
(drinks $20).
Martin Burgoyne came over and invited me to be his date to the
Madonna wedding in L.A. in August.
Saturday,July 27, 1985
I called Keith to tell him I was invited by Martin to Madonna’s wedding.
Keith’s invited, too. We cabbed with Paige down to Wooster and Broadway
($5). It was a party for Clemente that the Artforum girl was giving in a big
beautiful loft. Bianca was there on crutches so I was glad I’d sent her
flowers. She thanked me for telling her about Eizo because he helped her
leg. Rammellzee the black graffiti artist was there and he threw me by
saying, “Entertain me, show me why you’re great.” And I froze up. He has
long long eyelashes. We decided to go to II Cantinori to dinner.
We got there and we were waiting for Jade and her boyfriend. And Jade,
she really has to grow another head or she’s finished—you know what I
mean? She’s really beautiful but she’s still smaller than Bianca. And for a
while she’d been the tallest girl in her class. She was saying how everybody
thinks she’s the luckiest girl in the world for having these two great parents,
but that they just don’t know how hard it is. She also said that she couldn’t
wait to get married and have a baby who’ll scream “Grandma!” and
“Grandpa!” at Bianca and Mick. I told her she should marry Steve Rubell
and she said, “He wouldn’t be faithful,” and Steve said, “Well would you be
faithful to me?” and she said, “I’d have to think about it.” Which was a
good answer.
Keith said he was going up to 108th Street for an acid party, so he
dropped us off.
Monday,July 29, 1985
Keith called and said that Calvin told him that the Bel Air was for old ladies
and that Steve Rubell was trying to get a deal at the Beverly Hills. For
Madonna’s wedding. I guess they want to be able to bring people home and
I guess you can’t at the Bel Air.
I went to see Dr. Li and she took everything out of my pockets and
tested the phone numbers that I had there for black magic. She does do that
stuff. She puts your hand on your chest and you see if the energy is there.
You put your arm out in front of you and she tests for resistance—you’re
lying there like a horizontal Hitler youth. Last week she took the stuff out
and it was the same stuff I always carry. Two keys, stuff from Japan that
John and Kimiko Powers gave me, and some phone numbers.
Went over to Café Luxembourg (cab $4). Carl Bernstein was there and
waved across the room. He was with three girls. And David Byrne the
Talking Head was there but I never know how to talk to him. Martin
Burgoyne was with us and he put his hair up and looks like a girl. He’s
twenty-one but he looks jaded. And Keith said that when Madonna was
staying at Keith’s, sleeping on his couch, the stories he could write about
the people she had sex with…
Tuesday,July 30, 1985
Ran to meet Patty Raynes and the baby. This is Marvin Davis’s daughter
(cab $4). She was sweet. She told me Tatum was also going to get her
portrait done, so that was exciting.
Fred decided he’d go to L.A. for Madonna’s wedding with us.
And later on that night Keith told me that he’d asked Yoko Ono for
$200,000. I was shocked. He wanted it for his store. I said, “But Keith,
you’ve got enough money,” but he said he didn’t want to sell his paintings
now to get money because he thinks they’ll be worth more later. And he
said she said all her money was tied up, that yes, she had a lot but that it
wasn’t at her fingertips, and I was just shocked that he would ask, I really
was, but he seemed to think nothing of it.
Ran into Yoko and her boyfriend Sam Havadtoy and went back to the
Dakota with them. He’s Hungarian, it turns out, and he’s going back to buy
a big house there. And he doesn’t let Yoko push him around. He eats sugar
and drinks and doesn’t pay attention to her, and I guess she wants to be
pushed around now. And he was saying that he didn’t want Sean to be an
actor, that he felt he should go into something else, so he was sounding like
a father. I guess he just takes care of Yoko. But that’s hard. There were three
cats in the apartment and Yoko said that the cats hadn’t talked since John
died until she put a record on. And Sam gave us a tour of the place and it’s
so big. I’d never seen all the rooms. The bedroom and everything, so I
guess they do sleep together. But he’s looking for an apartment of his own,
too, so I don’t know what that means. Sam made hot chocolate but then
nobody sort of wanted it. Sean’s away at camp and loves it.
Friday,August 2, 1985
The Tina Turner concert was great. I thought she was copying Mick Jagger
but then somebody told me she taught him how to dance. And oh, what is
Ron Delsener’s problem? He never got us backstage passes and he’s
complaining to me about Cornelia wanting free tickets, and I felt like saying
to him, “Look, you want to get into society—well, someday she might
invite you to that big party, you know?”
The wife of Glenn Frey of the Eagles came over to me, and Cornelia
screamed. “Get away, you groupie!”—so mean and rude. She picked all that
up from hanging around with Boy George and Marilyn.
Monday,August 5, 1985
The Enquirer and Star and People and Newsweek and Time all had Rock
Hudson on the cover. We should’ve had him on Interview’s cover. It would
have been funny to have a phony baloney interview with him on all the
newsstands now—“Why I’m Straight,” by Rock Hudson.
Gael called and said that Kim Basinger is going to be the cover for
November and I said, “Whaaat?” I mean, she’s older and she’s not going to
be anybody and even if she is, so what, you know? I’m just so bored with
movie-stars-for-yuppies.
I was at Dr. Li’s and she told me to give up bananas and wheat and
broccoli and hot food.
And I want to do a Madonna headline—the Post one: “MADONNA ON
NUDE PIX—’SO WHAT?’ “—and use a photograph of her from a different
day that would fit right in, but Keith wants to use a photo he took of her and
Sean Penn. Which is kind of grey. But I’ll do it both ways. We’re doing a
painting together for her wedding present.
Walter Stait called and said that Ted Carey had passed on in East
Hampton. He was having an opening on Saturday out there of all his
paintings. I didn’t know he lived in Jed’s building on West 67th. In Stuart
Pivar’s building. With this Italian kid. I knew he was about to go, Walter
had called me last week.
Tuesday,August 6, 1985
In the morning Benjamin picked me up and it was a pretty day. And since it
was my birthday I decided to do all sugar, just an all-sugar day, not deny
myself anything (cab $6).
All this Happy Birthday stuff. Bernard the drag performance artist
brought me the greatest present, he’s really clever. A beautiful package from
Van Cleef & Arpels, and inside was a big beautiful bracelet box, just
everything perfect and beautiful, and I was so excited, and inside the
bracelet box was a typed card and it said, “Andy Warhol wants nothing for
his birthday,” because that was what I told a magazine was the best present.
“Nothing.” I don’t know if he had to pay for the packaging or what. So I
came face to face with my own philosophy and I was (laughs) so let down.
It was great. It’s worse than eating your own words, getting them back in a
Van Cleef & Arpels box.
Cornelia called and was so sour. She never even sent a gift or anything
and didn’t mention my birthday.
Stephen Sprouse brought me a gift, one of his old paintings. Keith asked
me who I wanted for the dinner. He said his birthday present was to take me
down to Glenn O’Brien’s softball team’s game where Matt Dillon was
going to be playing down on Leroy Street with the graffiti artists against
them, so that was something to look forward to.
Glenn’s team was playing against Futura’s graffiti team with Matt
Dillon. And Ronnie was on Glenn’s team and then this girl was walking by
with a little dog, and she stopped and said hi, and guess who it was. Gigi!
She said she and Ronnie have been back together for two weeks. And I just
looked at that dog and all I could think of was how Ronnie drowned the cats
when he and Gigi were breaking up. And now he’s broken up with Tama
Janowitz who was really nice. And Maria the jewelry designer was nice,
too. Gigi said that she works for the movies.
And Matt Dillon struck out with three people on base, but he was cute.
And then Lidija came by, they’d told her at the office that I’d be there. Jay
wasn’t playing because he’d hurt his arm or leg. And Wilfredo is so crazy
about Matt Dillon that he carries around a paperback called (laughs) The
Life of Matt Dillon. I’m not kidding, it’s a real book.
Wednesday, August 7, 1985
Somebody told me that Jon Gould has gotten a rich South African to
finance movies and has a deal where Paramount will match the money the
South African invests.
I had a dinner date with Fred last night, and Bob Denison and his new
wife, so I couldn’t go with Karen Lerner and Steve Aronson to see John-
John Kennedy in his play at the Irish Theater—it’s invitations only, you
have to be invited by someone in the cast. John-John turned us down for the
Interview cover. I guess he would have to give away too much talk to be on
our cover, but with People he’ll just get a big story and not have to say a
thing.
Bob Denison married the kind of girl that his kind of person should
marry—upturned nose, blonde, sort of the Joan Lunden-type, a little past
thirty, she was in a Valentino dress and she had a good sapphire ring on. She
does the morning Today Show, the segments on beauty and fashion. I don’t
know her name. And I was complaining so much about money that Bob
gave me a dollar and I had the wife sign it so I could find out her name, but
then I couldn’t read her name and Bob never called her anything. And
Fred’s still talking with a British accent. He is smart, though, that’s the good
thing. He knows how to bring up topics, which I don’t know how to do.
And we talked about the chic-est perfume and the chic-est man and the
chic-est show and the chic-est car.
On the way home from Le Cirque this well-dressed guy with a briefcase
stopped Fred and me and said his wallet had just been stolen and everything
and Fred believed him and gave him money. I didn’t though, because a real
person wouldn’t ask, they’d do something else, go someplace else. But Fred
gave him money and he went toward the subway. But then Fred realized
he’d left his umbrella so we went back, and there was the guy doing the
same thing to somebody else. And Fred screamed at him that he was a
crook.
Thursday, August 8, 1985
Tama Janowitz came by the office to see Paige. Tama’s upset because
Ronnie’s gone back with Gigi and I kept slipping and bringing up Ronnie
without meaning to. She seemed like she was holding up well but then later
she broke down and said she was still so in love, that she didn’t know what
to do, and I told her that she was so talented and pretty, and that she had
everything and I didn’t know why Ronnie would leave her to go back to a
really awful person like Gigi, and she said she was thrilled to hear me say
that. I told her she had to get over her romance and just use it for material to
write about.
Monday,August 12, 1985
Cornelia looked great last night at the party for the movie Key Exchange. It
was at Harry Winston’s jewelry store on 5 5th Street and Fifth because his
son Ronnie Winston helped produce it I think. Cornelia was in a golden
yellow dress and she was wearing her long blonde braid. A few weeks ago
she saw somebody with it, and she’s good that way, she finds out right away
where they got it and goes the next day and gets it. And the dress was $40
from Bloomingdale’s and on her it looked like it cost thousands. Floppy on
top and a miniskirt. She was the best-looking girl there. She’s got to lose
her champagne double chin, though, that’s the only thing. And they were
making her feel bad about not being in Hollywood.
And she was in a sweet mood last night, not being a brat. She was
saying that her mother never helps her—that she competes with her and she
won’t get her on the cover of Town and Country— and I told her that she
could get herself on the cover but she should wait until she’s selling
something or it’ll be a waste. And I told her not to be hard on her mother, I
explained to her, “You know, when you’re old and you don’t feel old, you
want to be in with the new generation and be part of it….” And she said that
she really misses her father because he was the only one who cared about
her. So I think she’s going to go out to Hollywood for a month and try to get
parts.
Tuesday,August 13, 1985
Dolly Fox came by the office and I wanted her to meet Cornelia. And they
got along great, they were talking about the people they’ve introduced that
then fall in love and why can’t it happen to them and Dolly came up with
that it was because they were rich. Because Dolly had to talk Julianne into
going to see Bruce Springsteen and then they went backstage and Bruce and
Julianne’s eyes met and that was it. I asked Dolly if she’d fucked Bruce
before she introduced him and Julianne, and she said no, but that she’d been
just about to. And I asked if Julianne had done it with Bruce on the first
night and she said no, not on the first night. And Dolly also introduced her
friend Dana to Eric Roberts and he immediately left Sandy Dennis and now
they’re going to get married. Dolly looked beautiful—her eyebrows are so
perfect and so is her eye makeup.
Wednesday,August 14, 1985
Keith came by yesterday and he wanted to use my tracer, so I guess he
knows I had one, so (laughs) I had to admit it. He had a baseball player
with him. And my date for the Madonna wedding, Martin Burgoyne, is
being wined and dined by People magazine because they’re trying to get
information about the wedding out of him—he and Madonna used to be
roommates. Nobody knows where the wedding’s going to be, yet. And
Martin is going to have to be at the door to let all the right people in, like
the important ones Sean and Madonna are running into and inviting at the
last minute.
And I picked up the phone yesterday and it was Dolly Parton and she
was cute, she said, “Hey, Andy! You know who this is?” And I said, “Oh
God, with that voice …” And what she wants to give her agent Sandy
Gallin is a portrait of her and she asked how much it was, and I just was too
embarrassed, I said she’d really have to talk to Fred or Vincent for that. She
said she was leaving for L.A. Friday afternoon so we made a date to take
the picture at 11:00 on Friday morning, so I hope it works out.
They should be getting the Stallone issue in today. Everybody was
talking about the Stallone interview—they said he sounds smart. Is that
possible?
Thursday, August 15, 1985—New York-Los
Angeles
We were on the ground for twelve hours. We couldn’t get the go-ahead
because of storms in the areas we’d be flying through. And then Diane
Keaton had a fight with the stewardess, she wanted to get off the plane and
they wouldn’t let her because they were finally second in line, and the
captain by the end almost was crying and saying it was his worst
experience, and that he wasn’t going to turn it around at this point to let
them off. And Steve Rubell had a big fight with the stewardess. Not while
we were on the ground because he didn’t want to get thrown off, but as
soon as we were in the air, he started, “You bitch, give me your name.” It
was Pan Am.
Finally we got to L.A. at about 1:30 and went to the Beverly Hills Hotel.
Friday,August 16, 1985—Los Angeles
It was just the most exciting weekend of my life. Martin went down to the
hairdresser earlier in the day to have his hair done. We rode in a limo out to
Malibu and when we saw helicopters in the distance we knew we were at
the wedding. Somebody had tipped the reporters off about where the
wedding was and about ten helicopters were hovering, it was like
Apocalypse Now. And one helicopter had a girl hanging off with a camera
and they were all trying to get in close. And the security people found
camouflage-outfitted photographers in the bushes. And I looked really close
at Madonna and she is beautiful. And she and Sean are just so in love. She
wore white, and a black bowler hat, I don’t know what that was supposed to
mean. And someone said that Sean had shot at the helicopters the night
before. The only boring celebrity there was Diane Keaton, really. And it
was the right mixture of nobodies and celebrities. Sean came over to say
hello, and the good-looking family of Madonna was there, all the brothers.
And you can see Madonna and Sean love each other so much. Really, it was
the most exciting thing ever.
And at the wedding Steve Rubell was really out of it on I guess
Quaaludes. And I think I saw Madonna kick him away from her and later he
threw up in the car. She was dancing with the only little boy there. And you
could see everybody who was there, it was under a tent, it wasn’t too
crowded. And those young actors seemed like they were in their fathers’
suits, like Emilio Estevez and Tom Cruise. All those movie-star boys with
the strong legs who’re 5’10” or so. I guess that’s the new Hollywood look.
Like the actors in Matthew Rolston’s big photo spread in the Stallone issue.
Have I said how great that looked? Matthew is our best photographer now
—he uses good locations and gives the kids “a look.” He made these new
kids look stunning—like stars—he gave them all class. Oh, and as we were
leaving I just couldn’t believe my eyes because Tom Cruise jumped into our
car to get away from photographers. His car was down the road. I took a
picture of him.
Fred and I thought Marisa’s wedding was more glamorous, but this one
was spectacular because of the helicopters.
Saturday, August 17, 1985—Los Angeles
I just hated the Beverly Hills Hotel. There were two TVs but no clickers.
And the bathroom was worse than a 1950s Holiday Inn. I don’t know how a
girl could manage in it—I wasn’t doing too well myself. There was no light.
But they had a new gadget in there, I think it might have been a hairdryer.
Or maybe it was just a phone. And the security at the Beverly Hills looks
like it— at the Bel Air they just blend in.
Steve Rubell decided not to go over with us to see Dolly Parton. He
stayed in bed and made phone calls. You know, it’s odd to watch Steve,
because it’s like he’s trying so hard to be “a character.” Like the way he eats
his ketchup and his Coca-Cola and he repeats over and over that these are
the things he likes and that this is the way he likes them. So that people will
remember him as “a character.” It’s like he might have read a book on how
to be remembered and make an impression and he’s doing everything it
said. He’ll order the food and then let it sit there. And we all ordered ice and
he made this big thing about waiting till the bottom melted and then sucking
it out, saying that’s what he liked to do because when his father used to buy
him ices when he was little, that’s what he did.
Got a cab over to see Dolly Parton at Sandy Gallin’s. Dolly doesn’t want
anyone to know where she lives because she’s had death threats. So we
were there and I guess Dolly was appalled that we brought as many people,
but Keith and everybody had wanted to have a totally star-filled day. Sandy
Gallin had the spots measured where he wanted the portraits to go on the
walls and everything. And then we walked back to the hotel.
Called Cher’s number and it was a recording that said that anyone
calling this private number was automatically invited to the barbecue going
on there.
So we went over to Cher’s and the door opened and they let us in, but
we could see that Cher and her boyfriend were shocked to see us. And Cher
served good pork and beans and she wouldn’t say what the secret was, and
finally she admitted it was that she opened a can of Campbell’s and poured
in a lot of hot sauce. The little Allman boy, Elijah, was being a brat and
going around cutting the buds off every flower, any one that was just about
to open. And Cher was funny, she told a story about this crane that came
and stayed two days and ate all the fish. And then later on we went to Lisa
Love’s and she said, “Gee, a crane just landed in my yard and he’s eating all
the fish.” So the crane gets around. And she told us that at the wedding
Madonna had asked her how to cut the cake. Cher said, “As if I know.” And
then Madonna was asking people if she should put the cake on plates, and
she was just handing it to everyone in her hand. You know, being “earthy.”
And there was a copy of the Star there that had this story about Cher in
it. And somehow everybody wound up reading it. And Cher was upset
because it said she never bathed. And it said, “Next week: Cher’s meeting
with Jackie Kennedy.” And nobody wanted to ask if she’d ever had one or
not. And Cher talked about meeting me in an airport in someplace like
Atlanta in ‘65. On one of our first tours. She was with Sonny.
David Horii, that new Interview illustrator, came to dinner with us at Mr.
Chow’s, and I was telling Fred that David was very good, and Fred was in
one of those moods, he said, “I’d have to see his work. I haven’t seen his
portfolio.” And I said, “Well Fred, I am telling you, this person is very
good” (dinner $530).
And then we went to Brad Branson’s. He was Paul Jasmin’s assistant
and now he’s a photographer, too. It turned out they had the best time there
because they took Keith and everybody to a porno store where they got a
spray called “Fart” and they sprayed it in the car and everybody had to
jump out (hotel tips $50).
Sunday,August 18, 1985—Los Angeles-New York
We got back to New York and I had the limo (my share $50) drop me on my
corner and as I walked down 66th Street to my house some girl yelled,
“Andy!” And when I didn’t turn around she screamed, “Your mother’s a
whore.” That’s a strange thing for a girl to yell. It brought back bad
memories of Valerie Solanis and getting shot.
Thursday, August 22, 1985
Talked to Sandy Gallin about the Dolly Parton thing. Fred asked him to
send a deposit and he said he would.
Monday,August 26, 1985
Looked at the TV kiss of Linda Evans and Rock Hudson in the Enquirer.
It was so muggy out.
I tried to read Final Cut but it was like reading The Wall Street Journal.
Tuesday,August 27, 1985
Stayed at work till 7:15.
Susan Blond called and said she had tickets for Boy George that night in
Asbury Park and she said I could have two and Keith could have two. It
was a benefit for B’nai Brith. Ron Delsener did it, and he was there and
wanting me for publicity, and I said, “Oh what about that night at Tina
Turner where you just couldn’t get us backstage?” And he said, “Uh-uh-uh,
oh it was impossible.” I didn’t tell him off but I wanted to. So we went out
there with Susan and we were late, we missed his first number. We went
backstage. And then we went back out and the kids were screaming, “An-
dee, An-dee!” To be funny. George did three encores. And he signed a
million autographs now that he’s come down in the world—he always
refused to before. He was thrilled to see us. Marilyn wasn’t around and we
were told by Susan not to mention him in front of George’s boyfriend
because I guess he’s jealous of him.
And Keith and everybody were making fun of Asbury Park, of George
being there, and it was, “Oh! The Asbury Park news is here.” And “Oh, the
Asbury Park TV station is doing an interview!” And George said to Keith,
“Where’s my painting?” Because when it was Keith’s birthday George had
he said he’d sing “Happy Birthday” if Keith would give him a painting.
And Keith said he would give him a painting but because he wanted to, not
because George sang “Happy Birthday.”
Wednesday,August 28, 1985
Miami Vice called and offered me $325 to be in an episode. And Fred just
sort of laughed and said when they raise more money to call back. Anyway
they sent the script over and I couldn’t figure out which part would be mine.
They said I was a “Puerto Rican crook,” but everybody on Miami Vice is a
Puerto Rican crook.
Gael looks really great now, thin. She came in, and Chris predicted it
was going to be about a birthday present, and (laughs) it was.
Asked Wilfredo to the dinner that Paige was giving at Texarkana for
advertisers (cab $5). This is part of Paige’s new strategy because she got so
sick of all the under-people stalling for so long about ads that she decided to
only invite the presidents of the companies out, and it turns out a lot of
times they don’t have anything to do, they’re bored, and they’re just dying
to go out.
Dropped Wilfredo (cab $10). And then I got home and watched some
Letterman, and he had on Eddie Murphy who was cool and casual, and then
Dick Cavett came on and he was really funny. He’s gotten more gay-
looking and -acting, and Letterman was nervous because Cavett was so
funny, he just sort of faded out of the picture. Dick was really working his
ass off, using funny intellectual words and making puns.
Sunday,September 1, 1985
We got to the Meadowlands for the Springsteen concert and it was so
exciting, a sea of people. We had tickets for the press room, but we stayed
out on the floor. Dolly Fox and Keith couldn’t believe how many
autographs I had to sign for the Jersey kids.
The concert was long, from 7:00 to 11:30. The Boss talks dumb and he’s
a Democrat but he doesn’t exactly say so—he just talks about getting jobs
back for the steel mills and things. He’s a real little fireball. And the
choreography, well, if this is choreography, then I can do choreography.
And by the way, slam dancing, I think I could really be good at. I really do
think so. Bruce’s laugh is the cute thing, he giggles. And he’s gotten good-
looking. He wasn’t good-looking when he was younger. And then we came
back to the city and went to P.J. Clarke’s. Got home about 2:00 (dinner
$110).
Tuesday,September 3, 1985
Benjamin arrived and we ran into Crazy Matty and I said why didn’t he go
bother Greta Garbo over on East 52nd Street, so he took down the address.
And I can just see it in the papers now after he kills Greta Garbo: “Andy
Warhol gave me the address.”
Oh, you know, I was talking to somebody yesterday, and I found out that
Bruce Springsteen really does give a lot of his money away, so I do like him
now. Maybe we can get him for a cover when he’s wanting to publicize
Farm Aid.
Saw American Flyer. I was looking at this girl in the movie with this
hooked nose and I realized it was Jennifer Grey. I mean, it’s really sad, her
father got himself a new nose and didn’t send her for one. Isn’t that mean?
Oh, but go to the movie for the nose—you have to see it. And for Kevin
Costner, he’ll have a big career. The movie’s really good.
Wednesday,September 4, 1985
I can’t tell which nights Fred’s been drinking and which nights he hasn’t. I
don’t know if he’s grand when he drinks or grand when he doesn’t. It’s like
he thinks he’s Conde Nast or something. And I said that the Stallone issue
of Interview was great, but that I can’t see it paying for itself. And he said
yes, yes, that he knew very well how much it cost, that he knew ev-er-y-
thing. And I said, “Oh, well, okay if you know everything, you know
everything. But I remember that time when we had a big debt nobody knew
about, but if you know everything, that’s great.”
Went to Keith’s party in his new loft (cab $3). And Keith had a good
group, too, a lot of girls. Martin Burgoyne was there and he told me that
Madonna was upset because we let People photograph the paintings Keith
and I gave her for a wedding present. They’d called me and I said no but
then I told them that if they wanted to try Keith they should just call him.
So Martin said Madonna hates us for that and I told Martin he should’ve
made her not hate us.
Thursday, September 5, 1985
Jean Michel had called and said he wanted to go with us to see Susan
Blond’s act, Luther Vandross, at Radio City Music Hall (cab $3). And a
black girl said she’d show us to our seats, and she took us down an aisle and
had me sign something and then left us standing there and then I realized
she had just wanted an autograph, that she wasn’t even an usher. That was
funny. But I mean, she could’ve taken us down the right aisle, anyway. So
we found our seats and Eddie Murphy they said was somewhere but I didn’t
see him.
So Luther sang and his songs were all long long stories. But very good,
the audience loved him. Then we cabbed to Area ($7).
And Lester Persky was there, drunk, kissing everybody, saying how I’d
picked him out of the gutter and made him somebody and (laughs) I guess
I’ve told him that so often that he’s started to believe it. And he wanted to
meet Boy George, so he had me introduce him, and then when I left them
alone I guess Boy George lost interest because Lester came over and
wanted to be reintroduced.
And Lester’s friend Tommy Dean was there who I just can’t stand. I
remember when he told Lester not to give us the money to make Bad. And
he did it so smugly. Oh, I remember that. So smug.
Benjamin walked me to a cab and I went uptown ($8).
Friday,September 6, 1985
Jean Michel came in and our show is on Saturday. But really, the shows that
get noticed are in October and November, so it’s still kind of early, but it’ll
be okay, just a little thing. And in his stupor Jean Michel knocked paint onto
the Dolly Parton portrait and messed it up. And Sandy Gallin keeps calling,
saying he wants it right away, and I wish they wouldn’t rush me because I
want to make it really good and it’s not ready.
Saturday,September 7, 1985
I was going to go to Dr. Karen Burke’s for collagen but it was too hot out
and I didn’t want the pain.
Wilfredo came by the office and helped me. It seems like Interview’s
doing Madonna for the Christmas cover. She’ll be interviewed by Sean
Penn and another person. I got my pictures of the wedding back from
Chris’s ex-assistant Terry who’s making prints for me now, and Madonna
really knows how to do her makeup in that great Hollywood way.
Somebody must have showed her or always does it for her—everything
painted just perfectly. Sean’s going to be the new Dustin Hoffman. He’ll be
around a long time.
Then decided to go to the Pyramid club to see Ann Magnuson. She does
“Edie and Andy” and “Gala and Dali” and “Prince and Fallopia.” Like
Apollonia, get it? The intellectual girl of downtown. She wasn’t funny, but
she’s a good actress and she’s a hard worker—there’s something there.
Monday,September 9, 1985
Today on Donahue they have Betty Rollin killing her mother. She and her
husband told the mother what pills she could use to kill herself in what
combination and how many, and they sat in a room with her while she did
and now Betty Rollin has written a book.
Had calls about the Dolly Parton portrait—“Is the beauty mark in or
out?” I’d taken it out and they want it in, so I called Rupert and told him it
was in again.
Then went with Paige over to La Colonna because Estée Lauder has a
new perfume called “Beautiful.” Isn’t that great? Someone was telling me
that today people want to wear a smell that you know right away what it is.
Like Giorgio. It’s a status thing. Isn’t that interesting? I was next to the
editor of Elle, and I’d bought a copy the other day and it’s good.
Went home and called PH to tell her about my “Beautiful” day because
we want to do a perfume line together, and we had great ideas for names
and packaging for three different smells.
Tuesday,September 10, 1985
Chris sold a picture of me to In Touch magazine which has an interview
inside. He’d sell you to a gutter. I’m going to have to remember when I sign
releases for him to specify that it’s only for the one occasion.
Sandro Chia came by to visit, he was really sweet. And the news was
that Carl Andre the artist may have pushed his wife out the window in the
apartment in the high rise in the Village where they lived. The big headline
said that he was suspected, but then the article was all about how she’d
probably fallen. And Sandro said, “Good, good, they should kill all
women.” He’s getting divorced from his wife.
Wednesday,September 11, 1985
Some of the Dolly Parton portraits came out light and some were dark. And
then they kept calling me from L.A. about were they ready were they ready,
and they wore me down so I finally just said yes, they’re ready. But I
could’ve done better.
Thursday, September 12, 1985
Pete Rose is on Donahue. I wish I could do another portrait of him. Now in
looking at him, he’s really good-looking, a good nose and good hair—1
could do a really good one of just his head.
Jean Michel called and I’m just holding my breath for the big fight he’ll
pick with me right before the show of our collaboration paintings at the
Shafrazi Gallery. The opening’s on Saturday.
Oh, and I’d given a $1,200 bid to the girl at the auction place for a
bracelet, and so after the auction she called to say that it went for $850 but
that she just didn’t get my bid in on time. And I said, “Oh, isn’t that great.”
I mean, I can live without it, because I can live without anything, but it was
nice. And I keep going to that lady who has the earrings that match the ring
I gave PH, and instead of coming down on the price, she’s going up all the
time. It’s one of these desperate people that they get something in their
head. She’s stubborn. I should try to get her on a day when she has to pay
her bills.
I called Stephen Sprouse to have dinner at II Cantinori (cab $6). And
then Paloma came in with Fran Lebowitz and with her husband. And I said
to them, “Why don’t you join us?” And Fran piped up with, “No! We’re
waiting for someone.” And they weren’t. No one ever showed up. So I think
Fran is just horrible because they could have made the dinner fun—I haven’t
talked to Paloma in a long while.
Friday,September 13, 1985
Jean Michel called and said he was invited to the MTV awards thing. Keith
called, same thing. MTV must want artists to do their logos for them. And
Keith was upset because his tickets were up on the mezzanine. Jean Michel
arrived in a limo. He said he didn’t want to go with Keith because Keith
was too pushy. And it did get sick later on—Keith just wanted to be
photographed so badly. And he wanted to go with me so he’d be sure to be
photographed.
So we got to Radio City and it was just the biggest mob there, but the
TV cameras had already left so Keith was really upset.
My date last year was Maura Moynihan. She’s in India for eight months
now. She’s got an Indian boyfriend and Sam Green said she’s wearing saris
and bending low—it sounds awful.
Eddie Murphy’s act was cute, he said “piss” and “shit” a lot and he went
to the ladies’ room and picked up a girl, and then went outside and got a
guest host. You know, the Letterman man-in-the-street thing, the old Steve
Allen thing. But it was boring. It wasn’t young enough.
Then it was over and we were starved. We went down to the Odeon. But
Keith wanted to go right to the Palladium because he didn’t want to miss
the stars, he wanted to see Cher again. So we got to the Odeon and he was
immediately wanting to leave. He said he wasn’t hungry, he said, “I’ve
already eaten,” but we knew he hadn’t, because we’d all been together not
eating for hours. I mean, I like Keith, but it was so sick. Dinner was cheap, I
guess because nobody drank ($135).
Then we went in the limo to the Palladium. Stayed an hour or two. The
only person I saw was David Lee Roth.
Saturday,September 14, 1985
One of those abstract days you just want to block out. Worked until 7:00.
Called Jean Michel and said I’d pick him up and did.
Went over to the Tony Shafrazi Gallery (cab $5) and it was wall to wall.
They had a Danceteria doorman. They walked you in and walked you out.
Gerard Malanga asked me for my autograph. Taylor Mead was there. René
Ricard. The paintings looked really great, everyone seemed to like them.
Iman was on the scene, she’s broken up with her husband. Tony had people
downstairs for champagne, but it was the same old people and the same old
talk. My dates were two stores— Lee from Matsuda and Philip from
Fiorucci plus Benjamin. Talked to Madelaine Netter who was in running
clothes. Fred had Sabrina Guinness bring David Lee Roth.
I was wearing the Stefano jacket with Jean Michel’s picture painted on
the back, but I’ve decided I can’t wear odd things, I look like a weirdo. I’m
going to stay in basic black.
Monday,September 16, 1985
Fred’s going off to L.A. because the building on Doheny fell through, they
couldn’t get the zoning changed. And the new issue of Interview came out
with the Schwarzenegger cover which I love, it has the comic-book look.
And the whole issue I like. It looks the way Vanity Fair should look. Just
the right amount of odd things.
Laura Ashley died, after falling down her daughter’s stone steps. But she
never advertised. I was just thinking about these English people who just
take take take and never do anything for you. We never got a thing from
Fred’s best friend, Lord Jermyn. But you know, those Mick Jagger prints
that the Heskeths were going to dump on the market? It worked out well—
we bought them back and now they’re the most popular after the Marilyns
so that was a good thing.
Paige had people for lunch and I was looking at their jewelry and
thinking it was costume, and they were telling me how much it was, and I
was saying (laughs), “Gee, that’s like what the real stuff costs.” And
actually it was real.
And Gael took the Jewish holiday off although she’s told me she’s
Catholic and then once she said Episcopalian.
Tuesday,September 17, 1985
Benjamin and I went to Sotheby’s to see the big Indian show. Millions of
things. I missed Kenny Lane’s lunch for Jackie O., some maharani’s in town
and Jackie did the India book. It was a busy day.
Worked till 7:30, was late.
Went down to Pier 17 for a party where all the rock and roll kids were
going to be (cab $7). This new, huge restaurant on the water, a whole block
long. The party was just sort of ending. Jellybean was leaving. Matt Dillon
was drunk with his friends, and he showed off for them, “Hiii, Andy,” and
was shaking my hand and gave me a big manful feel around the shoulder.
And then he sort of gave me a kiss.
Wednesday,September 18, 1985
Benjamin and I walked out and there was my bodyguard, Matty. I handed
him a dollar and told him to beat it, but he didn’t, he stayed with me. And
he’s skinnier and dirtier and he had a sore leg and was limping, so that was
sad—he’s been walking the streets too much. And then I went to Dr.
Bernsohn’s.
I was in there a long time finding out about the ghost they were
throwing out. Judy the secretary wouldn’t come in for three days and then
she did and caught Dr. Bernsohn crying because the force was so strong.
And they said he shouldn’t have called the ghost because he’s Jewish, that
Judy should have done it because she’s Catholic and more easygoing, and
it’s different than if they were telling you some phony stuff. I mean, why
would they make this kind of stuff up? It must be real. So I left there. And
Matty was still waiting.
I told Matty he should go to museums and auctions and be learning
things. He should get a job at one of these places and stop being on the
outside and he had a long answer for that—something about being in a
plane and zeroing in on Madison Avenue and killing the Jews. He was
talking about that a lot. The thing is, we have the same life. We go to all the
same places. He kept saying how attractive I am. But all I’m attracting is
him (magazines and newspapers $4).
And the Campbell Soup Company hated the painting they
commissioned. It turns out they wanted exactly what they’d said—a
painting of their new box. I’d tried to do something clever and make it
more, but they hated it and now I have to do it over again.
And the horrible news of the day was that finally after not hearing from
Sandy Gallin about the Dolly Parton portraits, I called, and the secretary got
on and said, “Ohhh, Sandy’s soooo embarrassed,” and saying that it just
doesn’t look like my art. Sandy just doesn’t like the pictures, she said. And
after fifteen minutes, she popped the question of could he get his $10,000
back. And I said, “Well, sure, you know but doesn’t he want me to do it
again!” She said they’d thought it would be more colorful, more Pop. But I
mean, I should have known, because it all started out so strange, with Dolly
calling and saying that she was the one who wanted to buy it-as a gift for
Sandy-and then that was just so they could get a better price, I guess,
because when I said, “Well, I’d like to give you one, Dolly, for being so
nice to Sandy to give these to him,” they called back and said, “Well, since
you were going to give a free one, why not just knock down the price
instead?” You know? Hollywood. Well, I’ve learned things. Next time I’m
going to make them work for it, like come in and see if they like the
pictures and everything every single step of the way-make them work hard.
Oh, and then they even said that I could try to sell it. They said they’d give
“permission.” So that was horrible.
Thursday, September 19, 1985
It was a busy day at the office. Fred was meeting with Bruno. Rupert had an
idea to stretch canvas over a box for the Campbell’s thing. Left early, saw
the dog doctor (cab $6).
And I missed Paige’s opening for her Mexican artist. This is the second
try and poor Paige, just as it was happening they get word about the
Mexican earthquake which was really bad—maybe a 7.8. This kid has no
luck, this artist.
Jean Michel picked me up in a limo and we went to Rockefeller Center
to a party that this Steven Greenberg guy was giving in his office which is
two floors above the Rainbow Room. Two terraces, and the art was worth
around $10 million. This Greenberg—he has a white pageboy hairdo—is
the one who got me the live demonstration job with the Commodore
computer at Lincoln Center. The Debbie Harry thing. He’s an investor, I
guess. Someone said he gives business advice to companies and takes stock
as payment. He also got Clive Davis to use us. And there were so many
young kids, just great. Beautiful makeup, androgynous boys, just beautiful.
Downtown kids. And I was just thinking if only the Rainbow Room could
get revitalized, it would be so great.
On the way to Area we decided to go to Odeon. When we were at Odeon
I asked for the paper, and there in Friday’s Times I saw a big headline:
“Basquiat and Warhol in Pas de Deux.” And I just read one line-that Jean
Michel was my “mascot.” Oh God.
Friday,September 20, 1985
I had my opening at Leo Castelli’s to go to, of the Reigning Queens
portfolio that I just hate George Mulder for showing here in America. They
were supposed to be only for Europe—nobody here cares about royalty and
it’ll just be another bad review. And I told Jean Michel not to come to this. I
asked him if he was mad at me for that review where he got called my
mascot, and he said no.
Sunday,September 22, 1985
Went to church. I always go for five minutes. Ten or five minutes. It’s so
empty, but sometimes there’s a wedding. Then cabbed down to Sixth
Avenue and 26th Street to the flea market (cab $6). It was such a pretty day.
You can still get Fiestaware cheap. It never went anywhere, I guess.
Monday,September 23, 1985
Benjamin passed out Interviews while I saw Dr. Li. She told me she’d
talked to Jon Gould and that he said he had a $100 million production deal
—that that South African crystal guy is giving him $50 million and that
Paramount will match it.
Got a note from Sandy Gallin saying, “Thanks for being so patient.”
And I have no idea what that means.
And Fred doesn’t want me spoiling his new secretary from Newport,
Sam Bolton, by taking him places, but he’s a good kid to go around to
movies with.
Tuesday,September 24, 1985
The Campbell’s soup people loved the painting—the pink one of the soup
box.
I had a message to call Sandy Gallin’s secretary at home, so I did, and
she was so bright and asking me if I got the flowers—they were the
smallest orchids ever—and being so up and everything and I just wanted to
say, “Oh cut it out and give me the real story.” But I know she was just
doing her job and didn’t really want to do it and she kept bubbling and gave
her fake speech and asked for his money back. I said well sure I’d send it to
him.
Fred enjoys confronting people sometimes so maybe he should do this,
and then I can still stay a nice guy. I mean, what was all that about, having
me rush rush rush the job and everything? And so after that I had some
chocolate and watched TV and fell asleep.
Friday,September 27, 1985
Watched Hurricane Gloria all morning on TV because there was nothing
else to watch. For some reason they decided to cancel the Today Show and
everything to bring constant storm updates and they made it sound so
horrible. But then it never really hit New York.
Sunday,September 29, 1985
The sun was really hot, I may have gotten sunburn. Went to 86th and Third,
to Doyle’s for the joint auction of Louis Armstrong’s stuff and James
Beard’s. It was weird, the two different lives put together and every little
whisk and pot and piece of sheet music was for sale, with people hovering
over them. I’m surprised they don’t do it right there in the apartments.
Bought two catalogues ($20).
Monday,September 30, 1985
Nobody cared about me yesterday. I was in the same spots looking the same
way, but where I was mobbed before, nobody cared. It’s funny, what makes
some days different (newspapers $2, phone $1)?
Thursday, October 3, 1985
Ohhh, why do we have to get old? The Enquirer article that Frank Sinatra is
suing over said that when he gets up in the morning he’s so worried about
aging that he asks his wife Barbara, “How do I look today?” Oh, Frankie. I
remember when I walked all the way into Pittsburgh to see him to see what
all the girls were swooning about, and there weren’t any girls there
swooning. I went in and met this other kid to go see him sing with Tommy
Dorsey. It was one of my first things that I did alone, going into town and
seeing him.
Went to the Whitney. I was there to “advertise” my Campbell’s Soup
Box painting. And for all the work and publicity, I should’ve charged them
like $250,000—I mean, they’re a huge company—instead of just the cost of
a portrait. We must be getting desperate. Me standing there twenty years
later and still with a Campbell’s soup thing, it felt like a New Yorker
cartoon. And Rita Moreno was there, I guess she’s a spokesman for
Campbell’s and they were treating me more important than her, saying they
only wanted to photograph me, and she said, “But he asked me to be in the
picture,” and they said, “We only want him.” Because it’s just that it’s a
different category. It’s like when I’ve done the portrait of a big baseball
player, they photograph him and I’m shoved aside.
And I was so hurt—I saw Dolly Parton’s picture in the paper, she’s in
town, she and Sandy Gallin went to a Broadway show, and they didn’t even
call me. I haven’t gotten the real story of the portrait yet. I’ll get it out of
Steve Rubell sometime when he’s drunk.
All the headlines were that Rock Hudson died.
Keith called to tell me that Grace Jones would be performing at the
Garage at 4:00 in the morning. So how can I do that? Go to bed and get up
early?
Monday,October 7, 1985
The woman in the stationery store said, “So you’re a TV star.” She must
have read something that said I was going to be on The Love Boat this
Saturday. Bought newspapers ($2). They had stories about Rock Hudson
that said there were two baseball stars in his life and (laughs) forty truck
drivers.
Tuesday,October 8, 1985
Paige and I decided that we would start having “blind-date dinners” because
that’s a good way to meet new people and entertain advertisers at the same
time. Tama Janowitz’s date will be Dr. Bernsohn, I think she could get
material from him, and I’m lining up a Ford model for Paige.
Steve Rubell called about the Dolly Parton/Sandy Gallin thing. He said
that it was really Geffen who was getting the painting. He said that Dolly
never saw the painting, and that she didn’t understand that it was going to
be over the fireplace, but I said no, that she knew exactly where it was for
because she was standing right there when Sandy showed me.
I got a cab at 8:00 to pick Cornelia up. Went to Regine’s ($4) and I just
had a light jacket and all these places have such strong air conditioning, it
really is frightening (doorman $5, limo $25). It was a costume party and
Anthony Quinn was there and Pelé and Lee Radziwill, and it was an old
crowd.
And Mariel Hemingway’s husband, Steve Crisman, was very friendly,
so nice, and then he started being hip with me, like saying, “Give me two,”
and doing the two fingers, and I said I didn’t know all that hip talk, and he
said oh, that he didn’t really, either. He talked about the Mandrexes and
going to India and that type of thing.
Cornelia wanted to go to the Zulu Lounge so we left and went up there.
Gael Love was sort of embarrassed because I saw her there dancing with
that guy who’s big and acts butch who writes for the magazine. Somebody
Bob discovered about five years ago—Chuck Pfeiffer. Someone said he’s
married, but he’s never with a wife and he’s too—much, you know?
Tama was with Gael and she said that her romance with Bob Guccione,
Jr. hadn’t worked out, that he was supposed to take her to L.A. and didn’t.
Wednesday,October 9, 1985
The news was all about the boat trouble, the Achille Lauro seajacking in
Egypt. And now probably everybody will be watching The Love Boat this
week because of it, with my episode on it. So many people are telling me
they’re planning to watch it.
Gael came in and sighed and said she was trying so hard to find
someone for Tama. Why is everyone so worried about Tama getting a new
boyfriend? But blind date dinners are a fun idea. You find someone, they
don’t even have to be any good, you just bring them and somebody may
actually like them, you never know.
And I killed a roach and it was a trauma. A very big trauma. I felt really
terrible.
So then it was time for the blind-date dinner. I was actually doing it
because I want Tama to write about me in one of her stories, I want to get
into them. And it’s a great new way to meet new crowds. Everybody brings
a blind date for somebody else. I brought Dr. Bernsohn for Tama, and she’s
funny, like a Jewish mother—she dressed in Chinese clothes because we
were going to Mr. Chow’s and she had on crystal earrings so that the crystal
doctor would look at them. But now I’m afraid she will write about
Bernsohn and that he’ll get into trouble. Because see, using crystals to heal
and stuff isn’t really legit. Oh and the night before when Tama was standing
next to Sylvia Miles, I just thought, give her twenty more years and shell be
Sylvia—she’d had a few drinks and her hair was disheveled.
And Tama is desperate—she said she got a phone call that was a wrong
number but she made a date with the guy anyway. The guy was trying to
call his ex-girlfriend who was getting married, and then after he talked to
Tama, he did get the ex-girlfriend and he told her about what had happened,
and now she’s coming on the date with Tama and him. This is how
desperate people are (cab $5, dinner $350).
And my guy, oh God, I just hated him from the start. The one they
brought for me. It was this gay kid Paige had met the other night and he was
a student at Columbia.
I ran into Gerard, he works for the Parks Department now in the zoo
building opposite 64th Street.
And Dr. Bernsohn was interested in Paige at the beginning, because
Tama looks like his mother, that type. I’ve met his mother. And the guy
from the wrong number that Tama’s going to see is in the Egyptian
delegation at the U.N., so you can imagine. They originally had a doctor for
me, but he had to go on duty at the last minute. And my date went off to call
his boyfriend. But it is fascinating to meet new people. Then the Ford
model I got for Paige disappeared. But she was disappointed anyway,
because he was an airhead, he could only talk model talk. And we ran into
Holly Woodlawn who was celebrating her facelift—yes, she had one! She’s
telling everyone. With all her problems, she got a facelift! She never did get
a sex change, I don’t think. Paige dropped me off.
Thursday, October 10, 1985
Yesterday was the day for reading all about Yul Brynner, they made him
sound so big. And then late in the day the news was that Orson Welles had
died, and they were putting them up as if they were both equal. Oh, but it
was such a pleasure to meet Orson Welles before he died. He was really
great. I don’t mean his movies, I mean him.
All the governments were just lying so much about the Achille Lauro
thing yesterday. If I were the Klinghoffers I’d just go to the trial and shoot
them, the four of them. I wouldn’t be able to get off four shots in a
courtroom, but then I’d just get one. I wouldn’t care which one. One would
be enough. I know, I know—yesterday I was so worried about killing a
cockroach. But this is different—the cockroach didn’t do anything to
anybody, and I didn’t kill it right so it was squirming and it was so big, it’d
lived to be so big. Oh, listen, there’s going to be a war. Let’s stockpile
things. Silk stockings. Candy bars (cab $4.30, phone $1.50, newspapers $2).
The Coleco Cabbage Patch guy came by. And he didn’t like the
paintings of Cabbage Patch dolls I did, but he’s paying anyway. And we
were talking and he said that Peter Max was his inspiration, that he used to
be an illustrator and now he’s an executive. He proposed that he do an Andy
Warhol line of clothing with me and that we could both make lots of money.
He said that his computer had told him that I was the most famous living
artist. I told him I knew a person who was ready to go with clothes, Stephen
Sprouse. He’d never heard of him. And I told him about Keith Haring and
the T-shirts and Keith’s store, and he’d never heard of him, either.
Oh, and everybody’s talking about The Love Boat. The ad for it in TV
Guide only shows the Mermaid Dancers, not me. Why didn’t they get me
on the cover?
Friday,October 11, 1985
Milan the partygiver called and said he’d organized a dinner for the crown
prince of Belgium at Tuileries, and that the crown prince wanted to meet
Mick Jagger, and Fred happened to be talking to Mick on the phone and
Mick said he’d go. Worked till 8:30 (cab $5). The crown prince didn’t open
his mouth, he was so boring. Dinner was awful, and everybody was all
coked up. They started talking about “millions” of photographers outside
and spent about two hours deciding how to get out of the place, and it was
just Ron Galella! When you’re not high you can’t believe these people. If
you didn’t know they were on something and you heard the way they were
talking, you’d think it was something real.
Then we went to the Palladium, a Film Festival party. A girl was trying
to take me home in her limo, but I didn’t go because it would be one more
person to know and then I’d have to see her. Got home about 2:30 or 3:00.
Sunday,October 13, 1985
Went to Sotheby’s and they had my painting of Ten Lizzes up. It was a
preview of an auction coming up. They’d cut this one down a lot, I guess
they stretched it to make it “look good.” They’ll have other paintings of
mine in it—$200,000 or $300,000 pictures. The Liz is $400,000. They’re all
from Philippa and Heiner Friedrich, from their Dia Foundation. Ran into a
lot of old ladies who said they saw me on The Love Boat.
And then I walked home and called that kid Stephen Bluttal from
MOMA who invited me to the closing night of the Lincoln Center Film
Festival (cab $3). And the movie at the Film Festival was five stories hung
together by a bird with a bell on it. And it was in Italy in those beautiful
empty towns they find to film in.
Monday,October 14, 1985
Tama had another date with Dr. Bernsohn and I asked Paige what happened
and she said she didn’t think they hit it off. There’s another blind-date night
next week. And they have a construction owner and a doctor for me, and I
decided I don’t really want to meet anybody, it’s just fun doing it for them,
being Gramps and seeing the kids have a good time.
And oh, I really missed Jean Michel so much yesterday. I called him up
and either he was being distant or he was high. I told him I missed him a
lot. He sees a lot of Jennifer Goode, and I guess when they break up he’ll be
available again.
And oh, for Paige’s next blind date, I said I’ve got a 6’3” black
instructor from Lidija’s gym for her and she said that wasn’t “marriage
material.” So I don’t know. He’s straight. Although he came from (laughs)
Dmitri Fashions. But he says he’s not gay and you have to believe people,
don’t you?
When I was walking home I passed all the security people that still
guard the Nixon house on 65th Street. I thought he’d sold it. And there were
policemen nearby, and policemen always know me, so I would have asked
them who lived in this house now that they were still guarding it, but then
they would write it down that I asked, so I didn’t.
Tuesday,October 15, 1985
Went to Sotheby’s. It’s so awful, you see people pulling up the upholstery
on chairs there and everything, just ripping it up, and you’re allowed to, to
check to see things like if it’s the original American wood all through it. It’s
so nutty.
Then cabbed to meet Paige at the office ($5, newspapers $2, phone
$1.50). And Paige and I had a big scene about these chocolates that this
Neuchatel chocolate woman brought down. I mean, Paige is just absolutely
a weirdo. I had a talk with Fred and he says it’s not good to be so involved
with people from the office, and maybe he’s right, because I see one side,
but then there’s other sides.
So this woman brings down all this chocolate, and Paige has been telling
her how much everyone there loves chocolate, and Paige won’t even have
one piece! And I’m saying, “Paige, have a piece,” and she’s shrieking and
laughing hysterically and absolutely refusing, and finally I ate lots of pieces
but nobody else would. Here this woman’s an advertiser and it’s all these
secret chocolate-eaters and they won’t touch one piece! So finally I took all
the chocolate upstairs and then Paige came and wanted some and I refused
to give it to her.
And I finally read a Xerox of Tama’s story from The New Yorker and it
was fun reading all about what life was like living with Ronnie—she calls
him “Stash” in the story—and she made herself “Eleanor,” and not a writer
but a jewelry designer.
And none of the people that I’m with a lot now drink or anything.
Wilfredo doesn’t drink and Paige doesn’t. And last night PH reminded me
about how I used to put people down for not drinking, that I’d say, “They
think they’re too good to drink,” and it’s true, I did used to feel that way,
but when you don’t drink yourself, you sure see things differently.
Thursday, October 17, 1985
Called Rupert early in the morning and got his “wife” on the phone and I’m
going to tell Rupert he’s really got to get rid of him. I can just see the whole
thing—he’ll want a house and a dog and a car in a settlement. I mean, this
is a real nag. But when you tell people, they don’t listen to anything when
they’re in love. Instead they go tell the person you’re talking about what
you said. It’s human nature. They’re in love and they don’t see it and they
blab.
Vincent said the Times was going to write about our TV show, Fifteen
Minutes. And it got a great review in the Voice this week.
Went over to the Forbes boat for the annual benefit for Jonas Mekas’s
archives. Jonas bought a new building. I saw him and he laughed and said
his horoscope had said don’t buy real estate and he bought it for $50,000
and now it’s worth a million. I don’t know why these Hollywood people
don’t give Jonas prints of just everything. He’s one of the only people who
still really cares. They should just give him things. I can’t believe that
Hollywood doesn’t even have one film museum. It’s just disgusting. You’d
think they could at least do that. And Shirley Clark was there looking the
same as she did fifty years ago.
And the returns came in—the Stallone issue of Interview was our
biggest seller ever.
Saturday,October 19, 1985
I got a cab downtown ($5.50) to meet Vincent who had opened up and his
mother who’s in town for a visit for two weeks from California and then
after she leaves his father’s coming. And you can’t believe how energetic
she is. She says she’s my age, but she looks like she could be Vincent’s
sister. And she does beautiful paintings, really tight, good stuff. She wants
to be the new Alice Neel. I guess she saw her on some TV show.
Ran into that artist Bill Katz who raved about the show of Jean Michel
and me at Tony Shafrazi’s. It was coming down this weekend. Jean Michel
was getting all the good press, not me. And Tony’s not too happy, I guess he
didn’t sell many. They were expensive—$40,000 or $50,000. It was too
early, I think. I’m hanging on to my Piss paintings.
Sunday,October 20, 1985
It’s the fortieth anniversary of the U.N. and I think Mrs. Marcos is in town.
It’s getting so scary in the Philippines. Some papers say the Marcoses are
buying up everything in the U.S., but that could be not true, the papers can
lie. Our government must want them out, though. Like the U.S. must have
wanted the Shah to fall. But let’s see, did we want to lose in Vietnam? No,
but after everything that’s in the papers this week, I guess the Kennedys
were just too busy having an affair with Marilyn to worry about Vietnam.
Monday,October 21, 1985
I called Keith and he couldn’t come down, but he invited us down, he had
George Condo, the artist, working there. Bruno’s just signed him and it
turns out this “poor artist” has a room under Nick Rhodes now at the Ritz
Carlton—Bruno bought all of his paintings! Like 300 (cab $5)!
Wednesday,October 23, 1985
We’re calling in Europe to try to locate the Mao that Mr. Chow wants, and
it’s a solid sale if we can find it, but it’s one of the paintings Leo loaned out
that was never sent back. My deal with Leo now is that if he sells
something he gets a commission. But he’s never worked to get my prices
up. I don’t know, I guess Roy and Jasper keep the gallery going. He
could’ve had that show of Jean Michel’s and mine, but he didn’t want the
paintings. Tony Shafrazi was the one who really wanted them.
Thursday, October 24, 1985
Cabbed to the Palladium for Debbie Harry’s party ($6) for her song that
Jellybean produced, “Feel the Spin.” When Debbie arrived, she saw us in
the balcony and came up there because she thought it was the place to
(laughs) be, and then it was the place to be because all the photographers
came after her. She looks great. Debbie actually was the first Madonna.
Friday,October 25, 1985
That receptionist Gael just hired, for the second time when I called she
didn’t know who I was, and she should be fired immediately (telephone $2,
taxis $3, $4).
Saturday,October 26, 1985
Keith Haring was having an opening, so cabbed to the gallery (cab $4).
Keith said that when they had walked into the gallery earlier he was with
his mother and Joey Dietrich—I guess it must have been around noon—and
two white kids threw tar and feathers at them and the only one who got hit
was Joey. And we were trying to figure out what that meant—tar and
feathers. When do you do that and what kind of person would do that?
What was the message?
Oh, and the tabloids say that there’s a big TV producer who’s got AIDS
and who could it be? I’m telling you, I don’t want to know anybody ever in
my life. It’s so much better just going to dinner. There’s different ways to
have fun, different kinds of people to have fun with. I don’t need romance.
Monday,October 28, 1985
Puttered around, went over to the West Side (cab $4). Got a free lesson on
how to stand on my toes from this lady called Ann Marie who Dr. Li wants
me to take lessons from on alignment, $75 a lesson. But I just can’t see it.
She’s fifty-five trying to look thirteen. Like me. It’s just paying someone to
care about you. Got a cab (cab $5.50, newspapers $2, phone $2).
Went to the office. I was nervous about going down to the book signing
at B. Dalton’s on 8th Street and Sixth Avenue after what happened to Keith
on Saturday.
And I’m having a very hard time sending that $10,000 back to Sandy
Gallin. I keep losing the address.
Cabbed to B. Dalton’s ($5). It wasn’t a big, shoving crowd, it was
orderly the whole time, a long spaghetti line that lasted for two and a half
hours and we sold 150 books, and Craig Nelson from Harper & Row was
acting like a star. Chris Makos came by and he was impressed with my
popularity. And Christopher was looking at the America book and saying,
“Oh God, half these pictures were taken in Europe!” (laughs) And he was
so right! And it was so nice to hear him putting down Craig. I enjoyed it.
And the book costs $16.95 and there was a 10 percent discount and one girl
bought six copies and I had to sign long things for her like, “Dear Harry, I
hope you have a good season in the Adirondacks….”
I’ve been forgetting to say that the new “Disco” installation at Area has
me and Diana Vreeland waiting to get into Studio 54. It’s funny.
Tuesday,October 29, 1985
I broke something and realized I should break something once a week to
remind me how fragile life is. It was a good plastic ring from the twenties. I
walked on Madison and it was cold in the shade and warm in the sun. I had
on the coat that Marina gave me which I love, the Calvin Klein one with the
hood, but the pockets aren’t useful. They’re so big but the way they’re
made, everything slips out. Walked all the way down to the office and the
sun was so bright in people’s eyes that I didn’t get recognized a lot. Fred is
coming back from L.A.
And Craig Nelson called a few times, I’m hating him so much that I
think I’ll take Christopher with me to some of the cities I have to do the
book tour in just to drive Craig crazy.
I read in “Suzy” about the Kluge party that I missed in Virginia,
everyone went to it. I just didn’t want to break my rut, but boy I should
have—it was every portrait I should ever be doing.
And Paul Morrissey’s movie Mixed Blood is still packing them in, they
say. We got the rights to Trash back from Cinema 5, and it’s funny, we have
to go someplace and physically pick them up.
And my big Mao painting is still lost somewhere in Europe, they think
Nice. It’s Leo’s fault. And Leo is getting as bad as Huntington Hartford—
they say he just says yes to any girl who asks him for anything.
Wednesday,October 30, 1985
I guess I can’t put off talking about it any longer.
[NOTE: For days Andy postponed giving the Diary his account of this day.
Finally, on November 2, he did.]
Okay, let’s get it over with. Wednesday. The day my biggest nightmare
came true.
The day started with Benjamin not picking me up (phone $2, magazines
$2). I didn’t go to the Matsuda fashion show. I’m just going to talk through
this quickly because otherwise I can’t face it.
Nobody from the office would go with me to the Rizzoli Bookstore in
Soho, but Rupert’s old assistant Bernard had stopped by to visit and he said
he would. Rupert dropped us off. The store is long and the signing was on
the second floor in the balcony.
I’d been signing America books for an hour or so when this girl in line
handed me hers to sign and then she—did what she did. The Diary can
write itself here.
[She pulled Andy’s wig off and threw it over the balcony to a male who ran
out of the store with it. Bernard held the female while the store called the
police but Andy declined to press charges. The staff at Rizzoli asked him if
he’d like to stop, but there were people with books still waiting so he said
no, that he would finish. The Calvin Klein coat he was wearing had a hood,
so he pulled it up over his head and kept signing.]
I don’t know what held me back from pushing her over the balcony. She
was so pretty and well-dressed. I guess I called her a bitch or something and
asked how she could do it. But it’s okay, I don’t care—if a picture gets
published, it does. There were so many people with cameras. Maybe it’ll be
the cover of Details, I don’t know. If I would’ve hit the girl or something
then I would’ve been wrong and there would be lawsuits and everything.
It’s getting violent out there again, like the sixties. I usually stand up at
those things but there I was sitting down and people were above me and the
setup was all wrong and I was so worn out and hating Craig Nelson and I
wasn’t fast enough and it just happened so fast and Bernard was really
sweet. But you know, you’re in this place and everybody’s being so nice
and you don’t think anything will happen. She was really pretty, a nice-
looking well-dressed girl. They had her cornered for a while and then they
let her go. It was too unusual. I guess these people had gone around telling
everybody they were going to do it, because a lot of people later said they’d
heard things. It was so shocking. It hurt. Physically. And it hurt that nobody
had warned me.
And I had just gotten another magic crystal which is supposed to protect
me and keep things like this from happening. So I was too nerve-racked, it
was like in a movie. I signed for one and a half hours more I guess,
pretending that it didn’t mean anything, and eventually it doesn’t. You have
to live with it. It was like getting shot again, it wasn’t real. I was just the
comedian there, pleasing the people. And it was so close to Halloween.
Then Bernard dropped me and I gave him $10.
And I got home and had two English muffins with margarine which isn’t
so good, and garlic, and two cups of tea and carrot juice and I tried the
Campbell’s dry soup. It was good. And no accessories in it.
And then PH called to see what time I was leaving for Washington in the
morning, but I got off the phone fast, I didn’t tell her what happened
because I couldn’t face it.
She found out, though, I guess, because she called back an hour later
and told me she was proud of me and that I was “a great man.” And
(laughs) that sure was a first. So that’s that and now I never have to talk
about it again.
Thursday, October 31, 1985— New York—
Washington, D.C.-New York
Got up at 5 A.M. with my nerves still jumping from the day before.
Christopher was picking me up at 7:00. I hadn’t fallen asleep until 2 A.M.
and I had to get up so early but somehow I pulled myself out of bed. To
have to get right up is so horrible without talking to the Diary for an hour or
so, just quietly getting used to it. But I did it and the driver Chris had gotten
was nice (driver $40).
And we got to LaGuardia and Craig Nelson was standing out there
(magazines $8) and we got the shuttle to Washington. We were picked up at
the airport by a lady who had a small car. She took us to a radio show and
this guy was supposed to be the neatest guy in town, and it was the most
horrible interview. I was still too upset about the night before and I couldn’t
think of anything funny, and he wanted to know about the book and I didn’t
know anything and he said, “I guess you didn’t write the book,” and I said,
“I guess I didn’t.” It was one of his most difficult interviews. He will
remember it.
And on these trips, God, I hate Craig so much. He’s there saying, “Andy
and I are both interested in sex.” And I’m saying, “Craig, I’m not interested
in sex.” I mean, Chris is like a piece of heaven compared to Craig. Although
(laughs) actually they’re alike. They just think food food food and what
they can take home. Although Craig is fatter. And they’re both pigeon-toed.
But Christopher is finally paying his dues, coming with me to these things
—he’s not even taking pictures and getting phone numbers, he’s actually
working, taking care of me and organizing me.
The lady with the small car drove us to the airport and the plane was
late, left at 8:50, and we ran into Susan Mulcahy. She didn’t seem to have
heard what had happened to me at Rizzoli, she’d been away from work at
the Post I guess, maybe she hadn’t gone in that day, so I didn’t know what
to do. When you’re friends with the person are you supposed to tell them
and are they then supposed to not write it or what? I didn’t know what you
do. So I didn’t say anything and she was self-conscious because I’d caught
her down there. I guess maybe she was seeing a person that she’s having an
affair with and she was all feminine and looked so pretty, like she was just
through with a hard day of making out. So she wasn’t thinking about me,
she was worried about herself.
And so then Chris and Craig dropped me off, and I knew when I left the
cab that they were going to dish me, even though they don’t get along.
Craig’d been telling people what had happened on Wednesday all day. And
I was exhausted and I ate garlic bread and went to bed at 1:00.
Friday,November 1, 1985—New York—Detroit—
New York
Got up at 5:00, just tortured. Again it was horrible having to wake up and
get right up. Christopher picked me up with the same limo service. Craig
got out to the airport on his own. Got to the airport around 7:00. Fred’s ex-
secretary—Vera, the richest girl from Portugal—was there with a group of
rich Mexicans going to Acapulco.
Got the tickets and newspapers for Chris ($7). And I looked at the Daily
News and there in Liz Smith’s column was the item on what happened to
me, and it was nice, she did it in a nice way. And there was a news story
about the hot dog man on 33rd and Park who got attacked by a roving band
of kids and his money was stolen and his cart overturned. But the next day
he was back on his corner because he had to earn a living, even though he
had second- and third-degree burns.
Got on the plane and went to Detroit. There was a fat girl holding up the
America book to show she was our driver. About 200 pounds. Sweet. And
Detroit is all sprawled out. It looks like L.A. And everybody working
everyplace is black. We went to the top floor of this hotel, the dining room
overlooking Detroit, and had lunch.
I had to go to the bathroom and there was a black guy there so friendly,
it seemed like a sex thing, and I left quickly. And then Craig went to the
bathroom and didn’t come back for twenty-five minutes.
And then we went to the Detroit Museum and book-signed there. And
the guy who gave that Detroit wedding we went to in the sixties came! And
he had the advertisement for it and the old Velvet Underground cover
signed by all the Velvets, except, I think, Lou. And my signature’s changed
so much since those days. I’d signed it with a ballpoint pen and … the Mick
Jaggers I signed with pencil and then after that I always signed with the
felt-tips.
Then we went to Bloomington. Sold 400 books and 190 Interviews. Sold
everything. Had to leave at 7:30 to get the 8:30 plane. I think people get in
line again and become repeaters. And so on the way to the airport, after a
whole day of nothing but signing, the girl who’d been driving the car all
day suddenly came up with a stack of books that she wanted autographed! It
was like a movie scene, really.
Got on the plane. It was a clear beautiful night when we got into New
York.
Saturday,November 2, 1985
Everybody’s being so (laughs)nice to me. Nobody mentions what happened
on Wednesday.
Sunday,November 3, 1985
I decided not to go to the office, to just stay in. Stephen Sprouse called and
said he’d been in L.A. and that there was a store there called “Andy
Warhol’s Wigs” and he wanted to know if itwas mine.
Oh, how do you escape this aging factor? My mother was the age I am
now, when she came to New York. And at the time I thought she was really
old. But then she didn’t die until she was eighty. And she had a lot of
energy.
Monday,November 4, 1985
Saw Dr. Li and didn’t tell her about the horrors of the past week, and she
checked me out and pulled on my fingers and said I was perfectly aligned.
So after what I went through either I’m very strong or (laughs) she is. She
said my crystal had been invaded. That it was low on energy and that I had
to put it in the sun to recharge it. You put the “share” on with your head
back. You can’t be standing up. You throw your eyes back until you see
yellow She’s worried about the same things Bernsohn is—liver, kidneys,
large intestine And instead of my brother being the invader, I think it was
that girl in the bookstore. They’d said my brother was going to invade the
crystal soon, and I thought well, maybe, because I’d said things in some
interview about my nephew who left the priesthood to marry a Mexican nun
and I thought maybe that had made my brother mad. But I think what
invaded was the girl.
Li and Bernsohn don’t overlap. Dr. Li is better. She could have gone into
crystals but she went into kinesiology and she massages pressure points and
she’s a nutritionist.
After work I went in my silver jacket and dark glasses to the benefit for
Sloan-Kettering and when I got there the P.R. guy who had been the one
calling to see if I was coming took me aside and said, “There’s no card for
you, Mr. Warhol.” (laughs) And this is the guy Brigid swore she called to
RSVP.
I wound up leaving and actually it was great to leave. But if I hadn’t
gone in the first place I could’ve had a nice evening just going to the
movies with the kids or something. So that was that.
And Edmund Gaultney went to a real doctor yesterday after going to a
homeopathic one for a long time. He’s sick, it’s scary. I don’t know. You
know, I wouldn’t be surprised if they started putting gays in concentration
camps. All the fags will have to get married so they won’t have to go away
to camps. It’ll be like for a green card.
Wednesday,November 6, 1985—New York—
Boston
The prices were really low at the Philippa de Menil and Heiner Friedrich
auction last night. Thomas Ammann had offered Dagny Corcoran $350,000
for the blue Liz but she thought it would go for $500,000 so she put it in the
auction and it didn’t sell, the highest it went was $250,000. And the Jasper
Johns that should have gone for $2 million went for $700,000.
I don’t know why the de Menils and Dagny didn’t sell the paintings
privately, why they put them at auction. Oh, and Philip Johnson bought the
Stamps for $150,000. He was bidding against Thomas Ammann. That
should’ve gone for $500,000, though.
Wednesday,November 13, 1985—New York
Benjamin picked me up and we went over to Bernsohn’s. And I told him
that Dr. Li had said that my crystal and my share had been infiltrated. The
difference between a “crystal” and a “share” is that the share is a healing
thing, and that’s the round crystal that I wear around my neck. The crystal is
a protective thing. Preventative. Although it didn’t help me in the bookstore
with that girl. Or maybe it did. I don’t know. I did just keep signing. I didn’t
panic.
And the girl who did it called the office yesterday. She said she doesn’t
know why she did it. Maybe she’s having a nervous breakdown about it.
It’ll probably become the biggest thing in her life, you know?
And then we went to 15th Street and Fifth Avenue to meet Paige at the
advertising agency that does the Rose’s Lime Juice ads. They do the ads
with the semi-nobodies, and they say they’re really doing well with them.
The John Lurie ad they said did even better than the James Mathers one,
and this time they wanted a girl. The semi-celebrities get $5,000 and Paige
was trying to get it for Tama. I guess it’s Tama who’s made Paige be
desperately looking for boyfriends—that attitude. And Paige is demanding
to meet John Lurie—she thinks he’s attractive. I guess she’ll go after him as
if he were an ad.
Then went back to the office. Worked there till 7:30. The Cabbage Patch
Doll guy came by.
Thursday, November 14, 1985
Yoko Ono’s boyfriend or husband Sam called and said Yoko was having an
impromptu dinner for Bob Dylan. I invited Sam Bolton, Fred’s secretary, to
go with me.
Went home and watched Entertainment Tonight while I got ready. And
they had on the thing for Dylan at the Whitney the night before which I
hadn’t gone to, but after seeing this program I felt like I had. They were
asking all these people how Dylan had influenced them. And I didn’t know
that he’s sold thirty million records. Sam picked me up and we went over
there (cab $8).
And we had to take off our shoes and now I do, but I had a hole in my
sock. And we went in and it really was heavy-duty, everyone in a circle.
The food was all store-bought—cut-up chicken. And David Bowie was
there and I was disappointed, his suit was too modern. Everybody had
champagne but nobody really drank it. Madonna arrived and she had just
seen Paul’s movie Mixed Blood because that friend of hers is in it. Bobby.
She said she was so relieved her husband Sean wasn’t with her so she could
really have fun. And she felt uncomfortable without her shoes because she
didn’t have socks—she said she’d feel more comfortable with her top off
than her shoes off.
Yoko had Sean bring out a poster for everybody to sign, a donation for
someplace, and he looked closely at every signature because he was
confused who all the people were.
Friday,November 15, 1985
At 3:00 I went up to Fiorucci because Richard Bernstein was there signing
his Megastar book. Divine was with him, dressed like a man (cab $4). Went
back to the office. Worked till I had to meet Keith at Nippon with Grace
Jones. Took Sam (cab $5).
Grace was waiting for her boyfriend Dolph who’s changed his name
from Hans. He’s in town to promote Rocky IV. And Dolph has almost no
accent left, and he’s lost twenty-five pounds and Grace says that now his
thighs don’t sound like he’s slushing through water when he’s coming
toward her. She was so funny, imitating the sound of his legs making the
flesh sound. Grace pulled out a big wad of hundreds and was going to pay
and then I said that I would (dinner $280).
Monday,November 18, 1985
Oh, and the other day when I was reading in bed Halston dialed my number
by mistake and asked for Bianca, so when I recognized his voice I said, “Oh
yes, she’s right here in bed with me.” So that was funny.
Cornelia called and said I should pick her up for the Marty Raynes
dinner at “21.” Every rich guy was at this dinner and all the right models,
every ex-model who’d made it. Married a rich guy. Every guy with a
million millions, chic, and in black tie with these beautiful girls. Me, I was
a mess. They had caviar by the truckload. I ate everything because I was
nervous. Dropped Cornelia off. And just as we were arriving at the Olympic
Tower where she’s living now, so was Khashoggi, and she had never met
him and neither had I. She’s a friend of his daughter, Nubila’s. And he’s a
big guy. He doesn’t look foreign. Really big. He was nice.
Wednesday,November 20, 1985—Dallas—New
York
Up at 6:00 after signing 1,200 books the night before. Went to the airport. I
was disappointed that nobody in Dallas wears cowboy hats anymore. The
cowboy look is dead, I guess.
Got back to New York. And Chris is so pushy, he said he had a meeting
and he’s telling the driver of the limo that I’m paying for that he’s in a big
rush, and he tells me I don’t mind getting dropped a couple of blocks from
my house and walking, do I. And he booted Craig out, he told him, (laughs)
“I’m sorry but you’ll have to take a bus or something” (limo $100).
Chris, by the way, is fat again. He has a two-inch tire around his middle.
Because he’s back together with Peter so it’s the homemade pumpkin pies
and the apple pies.
Thursday, November 21, 1985
Picked up by Benjamin. Walked down Madison. Stopped at the nice
chocolate store way in the back of the AT&T building and they gave us
some free candy so I hope they make it.
Edmund Gaultney came in and he’s put some weight back on and he’s
looking good again. He’s off macrobiotic. Peter Wise is cooking food for
him.
And then the Sacklers were doing this thing at the Metropolitan Club
and I was figuring out who to bring, and I should have brought Dr. Li, I
guess, because I wound up sitting with Dr. Linus Pauling, but I brought
Paige and she had a really good time. Dr. Karen Burke would’ve been all
over every man and the wives would’ve gotten mad at her. There’s nobody
to go after portraits for me, though. We’re still missing a Bob Colacello.
So cabbed to the Metropolitan Club ($5). And there’s Paige sitting
downstairs in the hallway. Those horrible doormen there wouldn’t let her in
because she didn’t have a fur coat! And we ran into Richard Johnson who
works at the Post and he said that Susan Mulcahy just quit. He would be a
good eligible person to invite on our blind-date nights.
And Dr. Pauling took my arm, he was getting an award. Upstairs I was
next to Jill Sadder, across from Martha Graham, and Jill said, “Martha’s
been dying to meet Linus Pauling for years and now she’s next to him and
doesn’t know it.”
I met a man who said he invented vitamin B or C.
And Dr. Pauling was telling us that the only real killer is sugar, and then
Paige and I were dumbfounded later when they brought dessert and he sat
there eating all these cookies. Paige dropped me off.
Sunday,November 24, 1985
Jean Michel hasn’t called me in a month, so I guess it’s really over. He went
to Hawaii and Japan, but now he’s just in L.A. so you’d think he’d call. But
maybe he’s getting tight, maybe he’s not throwing money around the way
he used to. I heard he locked the door to his bedroom when he left so
Shenge can’t get in, and he didn’t leave him any money, either. Can you
imagine being married to Jean Michel? You’d be on pins and needles your
whole life.
Then Philip Johnson had gone to Dallas and David Whitney was having
a dinner for Michael Heizer and me at Odeon (cab $8). David was having
his first of about seven martinis and a beer. And he was talking again about
“when Pops pops off.” But David will probably pop off before Pops. He
wears the same glasses that Philip does, now. He looks like Philip did
twenty years ago when I first met him. And David did Mike Heizer’s show
at the Whitney, and he did my show, and next he’s doing Eric Fischl’s,
who’s the hot new top artist, I guess.
Wednesday,November 27, 1985
I ran into the model I fixed Paige up with and gee, he’s so good-looking.
Paige said that he was just an airhead, but here is this beautiful boy with
muscles and a chest and perfect teeth and from New Jersey and you could
mold him into anything, get him started reading or anything.
Thursday, November 28, 1985
Victor called and said that Halston was inviting me for Thanksgiving
dinner, and that he had a possible portrait coming. And I called Paige and
she picked me up and we went over to Halston’s and Jane Holzer was there
and Bianca was looking soulful on her crutches, I told her about Dr. Li
because she’s going to a homeopathic thing and they can be dangerous if
it’s not the right one. And then this lady was there and she said she had a
check in her bag for $999 million to give to Revlon. She said she’d been
meeting with lawyers all day and we said how could you get them on
Thanksgiving, and she said, “Money talks.”
Halston always has the best mince pie with a circle in the center—I
don’t know where he gets it. Nobody ever eats it, and he’s the one who likes
it but he doesn’t eat it, either. Then Paige walked me home and I watched
TV.
Saturday,November 30, 1985
Got up and went down to the kitchen and ate the turkey that Nena and
Aurora had cooked. I was going to call Dr. Karen but I couldn’t face being
tortured with collagen needles. I didn’t even call to wish her a Happy
Thanksgiving.
So I’m at the office and the phone rings and it’s Geri Miller calling from
the women’s shelter and she goes back and forth from “You scumbag!” to
being sweet. And she’s screaming in the background calling some
policeman “You nigger!” and I could hear him getting mad and then later
she’s screaming at this social worker, “You black lesbian nigger, get away
from me!” And she’s saying that Mario Cuomo is her father—the other day
she called and said Muhammad Ali was—and then she knows everything—
like she knew the cover I did of Cuomo for Manhattan, inc. magazine. And
she’s saying, “He has a birthmark there and I have a birthmark there, so he’s
my father!” It’s like talking to Crazy Matty. And they both have all this
energy. She said, “When you saw me on the street I was working in real
estate for Alice Mason.” That’s exactly what she said. And I have a funny
feeling she’s a young senile person. After seeing these Donahue shows.
Because she says they say it’s schizophrenia, but I don’t think so. A Jewish
girl who came from New Jersey—in her Trash days she was our most
sensible superstar—then in the seventies she suddenly got crazy. One day
she was very down to earth, worrying about her topless dancing career, and
then the next week she showed up barefoot at 860, saying that the Mafia
gave her LSD because she knew too much! From working in all those
topless bars they own on 45th Street, I guess.
And so she’s calling from shelters and the odd thing is, she remembers
all these details of things that happened to her way in the past. Like she
brought up when she had sex with Eric de Rothschild in the sixties and she
said that after they had sex he called up Jane Holzer to go for a walk in the
park, and she said, “Why did he have to call up Jane Holzer—why didn’t he
take me for a walk?” I mean, every detail. Does that mean nothing’s
happened in her life since then?
Oh, and more sixties updates: My sixty-year-old cousin called and she
was in town with her son and said they wanted to come and see the office,
so they came down. And her son is the one who knew Ondine in Pittsburgh.
He once took the film courses that Ondine was (laughs) giving there, and he
told me that Ondine is now selling hot dogs at Madison Square Garden. I’m
serious. You know, Ondine “rented” all those films from us and then never
returned them. Loves of Ondine, Chelsea Girls. And there was a story about
Gerard Malanga in New York, about him being the new archivist for the
Parks Department and for some reason Vincent was upset that Gerard was
saying he was thirty-eight. I took a picture of Gerard the other week,
though, and he does look great. But how old is he really? About forty-two
or forty-three? And oh, God, on my Blue Cross I just scribble and make it
up all the time and then I get these things that say my birthday is August 28,
1982, so if I have an accident I probably won’t get (laughs) my money.
I’m starting to think that crystals don’t work. Because look what’s
happened lately when they’re supposed to be protecting me—my rug has
cancer from the moths, I stepped on a beautiful old plastic ring and crushed
it, and I was assaulted at the book signing. But I’ve got to believe in
something, so I’ll continue with the crystals. Because things could always
be worse.
Sunday,December 1, 1985
It was rainy out and I sort of wanted to just sleep in. The dogs went away
with Jed. I thought about the moths in my rug and I puttered around.
Went to meet Wilfredo, Bernard, and PH at the Matt Dillon play, Boys
of Winter (cab $4). And the play, I mean, after Apocalypse Now, what can
you do? If it’d come out eight years ago it would’ve been a smash hit.
Everybody got killed, and it was so sad, but the ending was just too corny,
because the guy would never have killed his friend like that. And it’s the
gayest play on Broadway. One of the reviews should say that and then
maybe it would be a hit. Because it’s all men caring about each other.
It was raining out and we walked toward Eighth Avenue. Got a
limousine that was going by ($20). So we went to the Hard Rock and Matt
was already there. He introduced me to his mother, and remember I said the
last time I saw him he gave me a pat on the shoulder and a kiss? Well last
night he just gave me a pat on the shoulder. Maybe because it was in front
of his mother. But then I started thinking that when he saw me the last time
he was probably rehearsing for this play and he wanted to see how it felt to
kiss a fairy in public.
Sat with Linda Stein and she talked about trying to sell Stallone a house.
He called her from his plane and said, “Linda? Sly. Just one thing before we
talk at length later: If Elvis were alive today, would he live in an apartment
or a house!” And I’m trying to decide if I should try to sell him my house
for $5 million. She says she’ll have to see it first. The house next door only
went for $1.9, but who knows what she could get?
Bernard went and got lost, talking to Susan Dey at the bar. He’s a
would-be starfucker. Susan Dey was emotional about the play and said she
was protesting war now. I don’t know which war. Nicaragua, I guess.
We left and the rain had turned into a sparkling mist. And we passed a
guy in a camouflage jacket going toward the Hard Rock and PH yelled,
“Harry Dean!” because she thought it looked like Harry Dean Stanton and it
was, so we talked for a minute. I always thought he was this teenager who
just looked really bad because he’d taken a lot of drugs, but it turns out he’s
not a teenager—he’s almost sixty, so gee, he looks good! Then Bernard and
Wilfredo dropped me and I gave them a twenty because that’s all I had.
And then at work that afternoon I’d spilled some tea on a stack of
Polaroids of some portrait and then I couldn’t unstick them, they were all
stuck together. With all those signs I’d put up all over, like “Do Not Carry
Water Into the Print Room” and I wound up doing it.
Tuesday, December 3, 1985— New York—
Richmond, Virginia
We had to go down because the Lewises gave a wing to the museum down
in Richmond. Fred and I went out to Butler Aviation and I expected a few
people on a private plane, but it was about 100 people. And it was
everybody from the past I really wanted to see, right? The creepiest feeling.
I said to Fred, “I want to go home.” And Corice Arman said the same thing
when she saw all the people. Like seeing Mr. and Mrs. Philip Pearlstein just
brought me back to ‘49, when I first came to New York on the bus with the
Pearlsteins. Durangelo who does those highway paintings was there. And
Michael Graves. And Venturi appeared in Virginia, but I don’t know if he’d
come down on this plane. Tom Wolfe was there with his wife.
Lucas Samaras was on the plane, and he was the only one I felt like
talking to. I always think these kids are rich now, but he said he still lives in
the same old place. He was putting Schnabel down. And I told him he was
the Schnabel of twenty years ago. You know how Schnabel won’t shake
somebody’s hand when they put it out, and then a minute later somebody
else will come along who’s better and then he will? Arne Glimcher was
there, he’s producing a Robert Redford movie about the art world.
We went to the Lewises’ house. We chit-chatted and then people had to
change into black tie at the Lewises’ to go over to the museum. I was just in
a turtleneck and my coat, so all day it looked like I was about to leave. My
Calvin Klein with the hood. But for some reason nobody thought it was
unusual. They told me that at 6:00 I’d have to be on TV live, so I got
nervous about it being live. But then I didn’t care and I got it over with.
Julian Schnabel and his wife came, they’d missed the plane, and Alex
Katz had missed his, too.
And I had to go to the bathroom because of all the vitamin C I’m taking
now, and the bathroom was full of guys with cigars and I’m really going to
have to get over this bathroom phobia because I just feel so … I mean, there
was a stall but somebody was in it and I tried to wait, but … And they said,
“Oh, you’re Andy Warhol,” and I’m trying to pee, and then right after you
pee they want to shake your hand.
Leo Castelli was there with Toiny and she’s a lost soul and he’s really
out of it. But the horrible thing was seeing everybody looking thirty years
older. I’m so spoiled from going around with nineteen-year-olds. At least
Ivan Karp has a lot of energy and he’s fun. Oh, and Ivan says he’s (laughs)
collecting Barbarian jewelry now, he gets it at a store in the East 90s. The
tribe—the original hordes.
Friday, December 6, 1985—New York
There was a screening of Young Sherlock Holmes at the Gulf + Western
Building but I want to avoid that place—Jon Gould comes to town now and
doesn’t even call me.
Worked till 8:30, then went to Schnabel’s at 20th and Park. It was so
glamorous, the Christmas tree was up. Fred was there, in an art mood.
Dinner was catered by II Cantinori. The girls were absolutely all wearing
the shortest shirts ever and then the Madonna stockings. Marisa Berenson
was in a black miniskirt. She has the right body. Those boy asses. And
Schnabel’s wife, too, she had one twenty inches above her knee.
Sunday, December 8, 1985
Went to church. Paige called and she’s thinking of going to a place uptown
to get treatment for being a chocolate addict, some treatment they give
heroin addicts. And she said she finally is completely over Jean Michel. It
happened to her at the Comme des Garçons fashion show. She said he
looked like a fool out there on the runway modeling the clothes and that’s
when she finally was over him.
Bob Colacello was having a dinner for São Schlumberger at Mortimer’s
at 9:00. Got there when they were just starting to eat. I was next to an
Indian lady named Gita Mehta and a Brazilian Portuguese woman who’s
married to an Irishman.
And I was talking to Fred who’d been to the galleries and things with
Twinkle Bayoud and her husband Bradley the day before and he told me I
had to start getting new ideas to paint. He said Roy Lichtenstein’s selling
every painting, that they all have red stickers on them, and they’re all
$200,000 or $300,000.
Monday, December 9, 1985
Jean Michel called me early in the morning to tell me about the fight with
Philip Niarchos he had at Schnabel’s on Friday night. I guess he still
remembers some funny comment Philip made once about how now they’re
“letting niggers into St. Moritz.”
The two McDermott-McGough artist kids came by to visit. They’re
living down on the Lower East Side, and since they do everything
nineteenth-century style, they haven’t had a phone or a kitchen, but now
they’re having that stuff installed in just one room of the apartment. So
they’re coming around. But they were still dressed in nineteenth-century.
They said they had just had meetings at Paramount with Jon Gould and this
is about those stories that I taped them telling and had Brigid type up. Now
they say he wants to produce that movie with them. Well, I predicted this,
right? What a swell guy.
Thursday, December 12, 1985
The Boston Museum returned the Electric Chair painting because they said
the shade of red was off. It was slightly different, and I told them that would
make it more interesting, but they still wanted to send it back for me to
think about it. If they had it next to the black panel it wouldn’t matter
anyway. I think they’re just procrastinating. But it costs around $4,000
every time you ship it somewhere with the insurance and everything. And
Fred was going to Atlanta.
Sunday, December 15, 1985
After seeing the Sam Shepard play the night before, I got up and read the
transcripts of those days with Truman that I’d taped where he’s going to the
masseur, then to the psychiatrist, then for drinks, then for dinner, but by
talking in them so much myself, I ruined them. I should’ve just kept my
mouth shut. I was, you know, saying everything’s wonderful and
everybody’s wonderful—the usual. I thought I could turn these tapes into
plays and they’d be my little fortune, but they’re not, they’re just awful.
Paige said that she and PH were going over to Stuart Pivar’s musicale
because PH wanted to cover it for the Party book. The reason I don’t want
to go over there is because I just can’t take hearing Archie and Amos
barking in Jed’s apartment next door on their weekends off. Do you know
what I mean?
PH called me afterwards and said it was the kind of event like in a
comedy movie where the boy would bring his girlfriend there to prove he
was sensitive, that the men and women were very intellectual and dreamy,
sitting on the nineteenth-century chairs and things listening to the beautiful
music.
Monday, December 16, 1985
Brigid just called on the other line and she’s reading me an article in The
New York Times and I think it’s about Rupert’s boyfriend. Hold on … it says
“Patrick McAllister,” and I don’t know if that’s his last name, but he has
AIDS and it doesn’t give Rupert’s name but it says he has a boyfriend who
works for a “famous artist.” And now I feel bad because I’ve always been
so mean to Patrick. He found out he had AIDS in August—oh, but I’ve
hated him for years. But still I do feel bad now, and that would explain a lot
of things that Rupert does now like going into macrobiotics and things and
taking courses like EST.
Chrissy Berlin was at the office and she loved her portraits. It was sort
of busy. Fred was going off to Europe to sell art.
My old model date Sean McKeon’s back in town, he’s been away about
a year doing plays in France. And this girl asked me about Sean, she said,
“Is he straight?” And I told her yes. Because I mean, how do I know
different? I met him when he was with a girli And you have to believe what
people tell you, don’t you?
Worked till 8:20, then walked to the Ritz Café, which is the new
restaurant where La Coupole was. I was going to meet a Ford model that
Paige invited for me. He was just back from Japan and he hated it there, and
it was just like listening to an exact copy of every other model—from New
Jersey, talks about motorcycles, modeling, eating, and hating Japan. But
they’re good-looking and that’s enough. The perfect nose and so much like
Sean McKeon you would think they’re from the same mold. And if you put
glasses on them they could look distinguished, but they’re brainless.
Paige brought a black Jewish lawyer named Rubin for Tama and he
looked (laughs) black and Jewish. And Tama brought for Paige a novelist
who’s written four novels and he was jealous because Tama was in The New
Yorker and Tama was jealous because he’s had four novels published.
And this was all about looking for new faces and brains and ideas. We
were in a booth for six people and it was fun.
Home before 12:00 and didn’t watch Letterman. I’d seen the news
earlier, about the Mafia shooting in midtown which is so abstract. They’re
just doing it on better streets now.
Wednesday, December 18, 1985
There’s somebody ringing my bell really long. Really long. Maybe it’s
Crazy Matty. He hasn’t been around in a long time. Oh, it’s the chocolate
man. He’s trying to deliver chocolates. Hold on …
They were calling it the coldest day of the year, but it wasn’t bad in the
sun. Went over to Dr. Bernsohn’s and he put me in a negative mood. He
showed me this crystal and he said, “I paid a thousand for it and it usually
costs $5,000, but it’s worth millions to me, there’s nothing like it in the
world.” And I said okay, that maybe I would trade him a print or something
and he said, “A print? A print? I was thinking more like two portraits, one
for my mother and one for me.” He wants $50,000 worth of portraits! He
said I have to let him know by Friday because Dr. Reese would be
“programmed out” if I waited longer.
I think I’m just not going to call him. You have to draw the line
somewhere.
Thursday, December 19, 1985
After reading that big article on Carl Andre and whether he pushed his wife
out the window or not, it’s so easy to imagine a fight. I wonder if they were
having a fight and she went to jump out the window and he tried to stop her.
He said he got the scratches on his face “moving furniture.” Which he
shouldn’t have said. I’ll be disappointed if he’s guilty. I would think if he
was that he would say so, because there’s something about him with
integrity. So if he’s guilty why is he trying to save himself? I would be
disappointed in him. I would think he would just say so.
And Lady Ann Lambton is in a movie about Sid Vicious and his
girlfriend. She’d gone to the audition disguised as a punk rocker and she got
the job.
Tina Chow called and said there was a dinner for Jean Michel at 9:00,
just really small. Jean Michel had his mother and her friend there. I brought
him a present, one of my own hairpieces. He was shocked. One of my old
ones. Framed. I put ‘"83” on it but I don’t know when it was from. It’s one
of my Paul Bochicchio wigs. It was a “Paul Original.”
You know, I heard the kids at the office talking about my wigs, and
when I think how much work time they spend gossiping about me … I
mean, like now Brigid has Sam to hate, because I take him around with me,
but I mean, he’s just a babysitter for me. And Wilfredo’s really the best
babysitter. He’s sweet but he’s street-smart. And he takes numbers and
follows up on business contacts. But he’s so busy with his styling work at
Interview and he still works Saturdays at Armani.
Dropped Sam. Gave the driver a big tip because it’s Christmas ($10).
Saturday, December 21, 1985
Called PH and said I’d gone to Jean’s and gotten her the earrings she was in
love with and that I’d pick her up to go to Vincent’s Christmas party and
give them to her (cab $6.50). I didn’t like these earrings at first, but I now
think they may be Schiaparelli, I really do. She was thrilled, she didn’t think
she’d be getting the pin, too. And when she put them on, they did something
for her, they’re unusual—strands of gold that bounce around with rubies in
the center.
Sunday, December 22, 1985
Stuart Pivar called and invited me to rummage for ideas with him. Went to
church (cabs $4, $3). Went to the flea market on 76th Street, and that one’s
indoors. Bought another Santa Claus sculpture. I just don’t know what to
paint.
Fred does help me all the time getting ideas. He really does. But in the
end ideas are actually just physically working it all out. You’d think it’s
easy once you have an idea, but it’s not. It’s just like writing. Like the
Truman Capote play I wanted to do—if I’d only looked at it at all before he
died, I would’ve followed him some more for three days and kept my mouth
shut and really gotten something. So we walked around and people nudged
each other when they saw us.
Then went over to Jean Michel’s birthday lunch at Mortimer’s that
Marsha May from Texas was giving. And finally I gave Jean Michel a gift
he really loved—the rhythm and blues six-album set, that Atlantic just put
out. And Ahmet Ertegun wrote some of the songs, those were his big years.
Jean Michel was reading the liner notes all through lunch.
And then afterwards Jean Michel wanted to go to Bloomingdale’s, it was
4:30. So we went over there. He wanted to get a $3,000 gift certificate for
his mother and when he took out his gold Amex card one guy asked to see
ID but the other guy nudged him and said, “It’s okay.”
Monday, December 23, 1985
I asked Jay what he wanted for Christmas and he said that in February when
there’s business to take care of in Paris, he wants to go and do it for me, so I
said good, because that will free me up to stay working here.
I have a real take-all-give-nothing attitude this year. I’m going to give
the kids at Interview who I know Keith Haring watches and autographed
America books.
Worked till 8:30. Sean McKeon stopped by but these days I’m happy
just with my two children—Sam and Wilfredo. Benjamin is just so busy
with all his other stuff lately. Doing P.R. for fashion designers. But he’s
such a good companion. I wish I could think of a way to mesh the things he
does so that he would still be working for us. He doesn’t want too much
steady responsibility, though. He’s a free spirit.
Saw The Color Purple and the men in it are so cruel to the women. A
real tearjerker. And Whoopi Goldberg reminded me so much of Jean
Michel. The hands over her mouth when she laughed, just everything
(tickets $18).
Tuesday, December 24, 1985
Was picked up by Benjamin. It was fifty-five out, but it felt like sixty, real
nice. Went everywhere and had a lot of fun. When we got to the office the
Interview party was in full swing. I never went over to it, but people drifted
onto our side of the building. It was over right about 4:00.
And I told Gael to come up and pose for pictures because I was going to
do a drawing of her because Fred told me that I had to. She looks good now,
very thin. Her hair’s beautiful and her skin is strong and she doesn’t wear
makeup. Peter, her husband, had come to pick her up and she was wearing a
pale pink leather dress and I said, “Oh, where’d you get that pretty dress?”
and the first thing she says is, “Well, you know, I never ever take anything
for free, but they sold this to me for $10 because nobody wanted it!” She
was very defensive right away to tell me that, as if she knew that I was
hearing about all the stuff she gets for presents from her business admirers
in L.A., sending her flowers and candy and stuff. I forget that these
Interview editors actually are powerful. And I told her she should be going
out to dinner with people constantly like Annie Flanders from Details does,
and she said, “I’m not a hustler.”
And Greg Gorman the photographer from L.A was at the Interview party
and told me that Joe Dallesandro’s got a big role in a new TV cop series
that’s starting in January. Then went home and Gael and Peter dropped me
off.
I ran into the 6’5” son of my neighbor, Dr. Hamilton. He got so tall
suddenly this year now that he went off to college. He’s handsome. He’s the
one that used to play ball in the street with the father and the one who said
he used to see Yul Brynner run into the building across the street to see
some woman and this kid would time how long it took them.
Took a gang to Nippon for Christmas Eve dinner and I gave out the little
Be Somebody with a Body paintings (dinner $280).
And then we went down to Kenny Scharf’s loft on Great Jones. In the
bedroom Kenny had these original Flintstones and Jetson cartoon drawings,
and he said, “Jon Gould got these for me.” He actually said that to me. That
was so odd to hear. He said Jon got them at an auction. I mean, you know
somebody, they’re living in your house, and then suddenly they don’t know
you anymore but they still see all your friends. I didn’t know the people
there, they were a bunch of weirdos.
I dropped off PH and Paige and Bernard (cab $20).
Wednesday, December 25, 1985
Went to 90th and Fifth (cab $4) to meet Paige at the soup kitchen at the
Church of the Heavenly Rest. Episcopalian. Tama had already left because I
guess it was too hard. And Paige was upset because she felt the food was so
horrible for the people. But it’s just that we’re used to such unusually good
stuff. It wasn’t worse than high school cafeteria food. And you see people
with bad teeth and everything. And we’re so used to all these beautiful
perfect people. It’s such a different world.
And the minister was having a bourbon and he was really cute. The
church keeps about twenty people overnight and feeds them but I don’t
know if it’s the same ones every night and how they choose them. Passed
out Interviews.
Friday, December 27, 1985
You know, I still get things from the Czechoslovakian church because I
guess they don’t know that my mother’s gone to heaven, and I look down
this list of names and they’re so simple and so great, I don’t know if they’ve
shortened them or what. Like Coll. Or Kiss. I don’t know what they made
them from. And then there’s the Warholas and the Varcholas and the
Varhols….
And at Christmas time I really think about my mother and if I did the
right thing sending her back to Pittsburgh. I still feel so guilty. [NOTE: See
Introduction]
Saturday, December 28, 1985
Susan Blond called and we made a date for dinner and by the end of the day
I’d invited ten or eleven people, and I decided that Bud’s would be cheaper
than, say, Jams, and so we decided to go there (cab $6).
George Condo came and he’s that new artist. He makes these small
things. And George and Paige were hitting it off but then Kenny Scharf had
invited this actress Carole Davis, for George, and she got there late, after
dinner—and she played the Jewish girl in The Flamingo Kid. So George got
confused about who was his date. And this girl was the hit of the dinner.
She was really funny. She just broke up with an Armenian or Indian plastic
surgeon in L.A. who’d done three generations of noses, she said, and she
talked about her chin job, but I think she’s had a nose job, too. She said her
best scene was cut out of The Flamingo Kid, when she tries to give Matt
Dillon an ice-cube blow job. She said Matt didn’t relate to her (dinner $600
including tip).
Bernard dropped me off ($10). And there’s really no American
cabdrivers anymore. This one was from Afghanistan or something. Is it that
these people are willing to risk their lives and Americans aren’t?
Sunday, December 29, 1985
Went to church. Then went to meet James Brown, the artist, at the flea
market. And one guy said he had a book jacket that I’d done for a book
called the Adventures of… somebody, I forget. A New Directions book. It
was the English edition of it and it didn’t have my name on it or anything,
and I know New Directions never paid me for an English edition of
anything. It was a good all-over pattern of African masks and my mother’s
writing, but they ruined it by making me draw a cutesy lady on it. For
“commercial appeal.” I had handed it in without it and then they told me to
add this lady in. I don’t know how he knew it was mine. Maybe he’d seen
the original American edition that had my name on it.
And then we went to James Brown’s studio near Katz’s delicatessen, and
he lives on the third floor of a building and on the ground floor is a
whorehouse and it’d been raided three times that day and all these Puerto
Rican ladies were running around in like (laughs) silk corsets and the
madam looked sort of like Regine. And she had a guy assistant who was
really good-looking, like a fairy assistant. And these guys just go there, I
guess, it’s like eating. They do it just so they don’t go crazy and they get off
in five minutes and it’s over. Like buying a lottery ticket. It’s a renovated
building and the madam had a hand-standing mirror in the hallway tilted to
see who was coming. That reminded me so much of Billy Name—angled
mirrors. Paige was fascinated with the whorehouse. She wanted to film it.
Tuesday, December 31, 1985
Well, it was a pretty starless New Year’s Eve. I feel left out. I think Calvin
had a party and didn’t invite me, and Bianca’s in town and I didn’t hear
from her, she never even called to say she was coming by for her Christmas
gift. And I mean, she doesn’t have many other friends. But New Year’s was
easy and unemotional. Nobody was mushy.
During the day, Jay was moping around the office but he’s been better
since I had the talk with him about all his negativity probably causing the
cold sores on his mouth.
Bought the papers and saw that the eyeglass place had given an item to
the newspapers that I buy my glasses there and that they’re bulletproof like
the president of Nicaragua’s (newspapers $5, cabs $3, $2). I mean, I’m not
going to go there anymore. Why would they make that up? I mean, what are
bulletproof eyeglasses? What could they do for you?
I was going to call lots of people and wish them Happy New Year but
then I couldn’t get it together to call anybody.
Sam picked up PH and they came to pick me up (cab $10). So we got to
Jane Holzer’s and of course she wasn’t ready, after telling me she wanted to
get to Roy Cohn’s party at 9:00 so she could really work the room for her
real estate. She was still in her bathrobe. So then she got into her makeup
and a black Armani jacket and pants. She’s a little heavier.
And so we went to Roy Cohn’s townhouse, and it was sad to see him
like that, it really was. He didn’t look old but God, he looked so sick. I
don’t know what to describe it as. And it was people like Joey and Cindy
Adams.
Steve Dunleavy the Australian journalist said, “Give me a bon mot for
the new year,” and I couldn’t think of one. Roy’s ninety-year-old aunt was
there, she owns Van Heusen shirts, she was the one who gave permission
for me to use Ronald Reagan’s old Van Heusen ad in my painting. She was
like a WASP dowager, only with a hook nose, and she still has every one of
her marbles. Jane went over to her and said, “I’m sure you don’t remember
me,” and she said, “Oh yes I do, Jane, and how is your wonderful son Rusty
and his horseback riding?”
And Doris Lilly was there. And Roy’s nephew or something from Palm
Beach who writes for the Miami Herald and wants to write for Interview.
Monique Van Vooren was there, she walked into the front room shielding
her face, she said, “Oh my, it’s the same wonderful lighting as always.”
Because it was horrible and bright and with this old crowd it was really a
horror show.
And then Regine was there and she invited us to the $2,000-a-plate Julio
Iglesias dinner-concert right afterwards at the Essex House, so we got
ourselves excited for that.
Oh, and I got a Christmas card from Jann Wenner and his wife and a
baby. Did they have a baby or did they adopt one? The name was “Wenner.”
I don’t remember her being pregnant.
At Essex House the best thing was a girl came over and gave us all brass
key chains that were engraved concert tickets that said: “Julio Iglesias,
Essex House, December 31, 1985, $2,000.” And Angie Dickinson was
there, who’s always so nice. Sam went over and took her picture and told
her he worked for me and she said, “Oh, I love him.” Regis Philbin did a
comedy introduction about people calling him Phoebus Region and Rebus
Philbin and things like that and then he introduced the celebs and the
spotlight went on me, and I froze. And then at midnight they shot big
spangles out of the cannons. And there were orchids and it was fun, and
Julio’s great line was he comes out on stage and says, “I FEEL GUILTY! I
LOVE YOU!” And he kept talking about how we were all one family. And
everybody who heard the price of this thing said that it must be a benefit,
but it wasn’t, it was just for Julio.
Left there and went over to the Hard Rock Café and the rock and roll
crowd there was the most corny crowd in the world. It always is. Some
CNN people interviewed me on what I was going to be doing next year and
I said I was working on a Barbie doll. And then somebody who came in told
us that Ricky Nelson had just been killed in a plane crash in Texas.
Wednesday, January 1, 1986
Sam is so devoted to me, and I guess it’s because I’ve spoiled him. Fred
warned me not to turn Sam’s head, but on our first outing I took him to
Yoko Ono’s and he got to sit there with Dylan and David Bowie and
Madonna and that put the zap on his head and now he’s starstruck.
Anyway, he called and was eager to work but I just felt like staying
home and resting, so I did, decided to just watch TV and take a holiday.
Killed some moths.
Thursday, January 2, 1986
Worked at the office. Painted some Hamburgers. Went home. Made myself
a potato. Sitcoms have the highest ratings on TV now—The Cosby Show
and Family Ties. Dynasty slipped to eighth and Dallas is down to ninth—
they should turn them into sitcoms. Wouldn’t that be funny?
Friday, January 3, 1986
Paul’s movie Mixed Blood is playing midnights at the Waverly, so Sam and
I went over (tickets $10, popcorn $5). And I just loved the movie. It was
everything he’s done before, but it was photographed well and he seemed to
know so much about the Lower East Side and the Alphabet—avenues A, B,
C, and D—for someone who hadn’t been in New York for so long.
Saturday, January 4, 1986
Sunny day. Karen Burke finally passed her doctor’s exam. She sent me a
card that said so.
Got to work at 4:00. Looked through some Soldier of Fortune
magazines because I want to do war pictures. I was Xeroxing from them,
having Sam do it, and when I went and looked he had about a thousand
pages in the trash! He’d been Xeroxing on the wrong size paper and not
getting the whole picture in and I said something and he can’t take
criticism, he screamed, “Don’t make me nervous!” And I mean, he knows
about money, I don’t know why he’d waste so much.
Tuesday, January 7, 1986
I was going to Earl McGrath’s party for Jann Wenner’s fortieth birthday, but
first went with Benjamin to this new building in the jewelry district that’s
marble but done cheap. It was a fashion show at a place called Bill
Robinson’s Men’s Clothes. And the male models were all on pedestals! It
looked so great, really wonderful, and the girls were trying to pick them up
and the guys were just on their pedestals staring and underneath them
everybody else—wasn’t perfect. And you’d go to feel the clothes and your
face (laughs) would be right in their crotch. The party was over at 7:30 and
the models came down off their pedestals.
Met Wilfredo there and we walked up to 61st and Fifth to Fereydoun
Hoveyda’s art opening at the David Mann Gallery. The wind was so bad,
really strong and cold. I hope I didn’t get a cold. Fereydoun was thrilled to
see us. His drawings which used to be abstract now look like illustrations
for The Arabian Nights. They’re representational now.
Then cabbed to 57th and Seventh to Earl’s ($6). Ahmet was so cool to
me. He used to kiss me and tell me stories but the last couple of times he’s
been really cool, like I raved to him about his seven-record-set album and
he just listened and then got bored and left. I’ll have to send him a painting
or something. Try to find out what I did wrong. Half the people had just
come back from a cruise with Jann Wenner. Talked to Jane, his wife, who
said they’d been married nineteen years. And they did just adopt a baby.
And Jann is so so so so fat, incredible.
Fred gave me a ride and I got home at 12:00. And Jean Michel had his
opening in L.A. and I feel just terrible, I forgot to call him.
Wednesday, January 8, 1986
My sister-in-law called me in the morning, she’s in town. She wants to sell
me a $90 vibrator because she bought three and doesn’t need them all. She’s
a reflexologist. She rubs people’s feet for five hours and gets rid of all their
sickness. And it’s just like these people that I go to, but I think that if I were
going to her, it would turn me off the whole thing, you know? And my
brother Paul, who’s the junkman, he’s doing well, he’s got a farm, a real
working farm. They just killed six pigs and they made sausages out of them
and stuff. And he’s buying real estate in the black neighborhood and it’s
really going to go up. On the river on the North Side. And the wife of my
nephew George is still suing him. She’s remarried already. And George
went to see the kids, he has two cute little boys, and she ran out of the house
and took a picture of his Cadillac to try to get more money out of him. He
doesn’t have a girlfriend, he’s still despondent over the marriage breaking
up, he’s a nice kid. And the wife I guess was cute. Irish or something.
George is the good-looking one in the family, I guess (cab uptown $5).
Called Jean Michel in L.A. and he said no stars had been at his opening,
and he said Jon Gould had been there but he wouldn’t talk about him to me
for some reason.
Thursday, January 9, 1986
Worked all afternoon. Left at 5:00 to go uptown to Sabrina Guinness’s
birthday party at Ann Ronson’s fifteen-room apartment at the San Remo on
Central Park West—she’s married to Mick Jones of Foreigner.
Each room was done in a different style. One room was English, the
other room was Art Deco, the next room was trompe l’oeil. There was no
food. Just three pieces of chicken sushi. I found some caviar on a tray in the
corner of a room where you would never look.
And there was a black girl there who was one of these over-bubbly girls
that I can’t stand—from Africa, she said, but then she said it was so good to
be out with people because she lives so shut up in Greenwich with her
family, so what do you suppose that means? She said she went to the best
London schools. And I guess Michael Douglas likes black girls because he
said, “Listen sweetheart, give me your number before you leave,” and when
he got up to do something he told her, “I’ll be right back.”
Earl McGrath was there, sour, until he finally got a joint from John
Taylor of Duran Duran. And then he introduced me to Randy Hearst, Patty’s
father, and then it turned out Patty was there with her cop husband, and I
met him, and then Patty came over and was very friendly and sweet, she
looks great. And Nile Rodgers was there, the record producer. He’s a
fashion plate, his hair’s cut square like Grace Jones’s, and he’s really nice.
Friday, January 10, 1986
Richard Weisman called and said he was getting married, and it’s next
Saturday in town.
Thursday, January 14, 1986
Chris told me that what Edmund was actually sick with was TB but that
he’s getting over it now. My mother had it after she came to New York, and
you just have to take a lot of antibiotics. She never coughed or anything,
and I don’t know how she got it in New York, I guess it’s just a virus. Doc
Cox found out she had it and she got over it in a month. And the
Department of Health people kept coming around for years.
Brigid said she’s going to Paris for two weeks with Charles Rydell. She
said her mother’s bought the coffin for her father. They expect him to go
any day now. They’ve got a turkey baster stuck in his throat to feed him.
Saw Jewel of the Nile which was a bore (tickets $18, popcorn $7).
Michael Douglas’s nose is getting hooked. I wonder if his father had a nose
job.
Wednesday, January 15, 1986
An English guy came in and wants me to do new Self-Portraits. I’m
working on the War pictures and they’re so hard, I don’t know what they
should look like. I’m doing Guns, but I’ve done guns before.
Saturday, January 18, 1986
I got myself into black tie, took a cab to U.N. Plaza for Richard Weisman’s
wedding (cab $4.50). And who was sitting there in the lobby but Crazy
Matty. They weren’t even kicking him out or anything. Richard was sort of
out of it. His youngest daughter was with the son of the woman who
Richard lived with for about five years and didn’t marry. And then I guess
he met this girl and decided to get married right away. And when she came
down I was shocked because he hadn’t said she was Oriental, and his father,
Fred Weisman, just had a horrible experience with an Oriental woman and
now Richard’s marrying one himself. She’s a model. She’s half American
and half Korean.
The wedding itself only took a second. You hardly noticed. “Do you take
this woman?” “Yes.” That was about it. And then I had about four pieces of
wedding cake. And I asked why Suzie Frankfurt wasn’t there and somebody
said that she and Richard had had a falling-out because he gave her $20,000
to get the stucco off the walls and she hasn’t done it.
And everybody was saying they hadn’t known if this wedding was really
going to happen. John Martin from ABC said that just before he got into his
tuxedo he called to make sure. And Richard’s wife told him that for her
wedding present all she wanted in the world was to go to the Superbowl.
Yeah, right—“The Superbowl, darling, that’s all I want.” And so then I left
and Matty was still in the lobby. And I said to the doorman, “How can you
let that person stay here so long and not kick him out?” and he said, “He
works for Interview magazine.”
Monday, January 20, 1986
Jean Michel woke me up at 6:00 this morning and I went back to sleep and
now my tongue can hardly move. He’s got problems because he’s trying to
get Shenge out of the house, he says he’s been supporting him for three
years, but the main reason is that (laughs) Shenge is now painting like he is.
They’re copies of his paintings. Jennifer’s away. And oh, Jean Michel must
be so hard to live with. I told him I’d had dinner with Kenny and the Chows
and he wanted to know why I didn’t invite him and I said that I’d called him
three days ago and he didn’t call back.
Fred said that the Boston Museum people were still vague about whether
they were going to buy the big Electric Chair or not.
Tuesday, January 21, 1986
I think I forgot to tell about the girl on 57th at Park who took off all her
clothes and peed in the middle of the street and then walked over and put
her clothes on again. In front of that luggage store that I never see anybody
in. The southwest corner, you know? Everybody pretended like nothing was
happening. She had high heels on.
Benjamin picked me up and on the way downtown we ran into Jimmy
Breslin who was just in a sweater, he said he’d just walked through the
park, that he walks to the Daily News every day from the West Side and he
said he’d walk with us, but we panicked because we were on our way to
Bulgari, and can you imagine the column he would write about that? And
so we told him we had to go and work on some advertisers, and it was hard
to shake him. But gee, that’s a long walk he does every day, isn’t it?
Grace Jones arrived at the office to pick up her portrait and she was
wearing Issey Miyake and she had a hat on that was like Rasta hair and she
has big kisses on the mouth for everybody, like even Sam. And she’s so
excited that she’s going to Hollywood to play a woman Dracula. I mean
how many more women Draculas can they have? She’s so excited. She said
they gave her “artistic control.” She was saying that she was going to turn
yellow and then white and then green, and so then I thought that maybe
they just gave her artistic control of her face.
Saturday, January 25, 1986
Went down to Julian Schnabel’s. The food was already gone and back in the
kitchen when we got there. I guess when they said 7:30 they meant it. So
Julian took us into the kitchen and we sat around there eating couscous. It
was so good. He gave me a copy of his book to read to see what I thought.
And what I thought was that he was really influenced by Popism. It starts
off with how he arrived from Waco, Texas, and then being at Max’s and
who he met. Everybody but me. It was sort of interesting because he’d go
back and forth from then to later, like he’d say, “August, 1983” and put
something in. I don’t know if it’s a prologue to a book or if it’s a catalogue
or what. It’ll sell a lot.
Then they brought out the birthday cake. And I was shooting with my
camera and this person pulls down her hat and walks away and I didn’t even
know who it was and I went into the kitchen and then Diane Keaton comes
in and said, “Hi kids, how are you?” And I mean, who does she think she
is? I was taking pictures of the cake. And I mean, she goes around the city
doing her photographs of anybody she wants, so where does she have the
nerve to act like that? And then she went downstairs and I was talking in a
loud voice about how I thought she was a phony and maybe she heard, but I
don’t care. If I see her again I’m going to tell her off once and for all, what
a big phony-baloney she is. Julian had a lot of new work around. He’s
buying back his early work that he sold for $600 or something, for about
$40,000, because he knows he should. He doesn’t know how to deal with
me and Jean Michel. He owes us some pictures (supplies $1).
He had a lot of Joseph Beuys stuff around. Joseph Beuys just died on
Friday. And Tinkerbelle died. It was in the Friday papers. It said that she
died on Tuesday when she jumped out of a window.
Edit deAk was wearing one of these Afghan hats and she said that she
told Diane Keaton once to “stop wearing those stupid hats,” and then she
comes in wearing a stupid hat herself and runs into Diane Keaton, so she
was really embarrassed.
And the Music issue is coming up and I really have to call Eric
Andersen back, he’s been calling me, and get him into the issue. Interview
doesn’t ask me to do interviews myself anymore or anything. They used to
ask me to do a person now and then. Were my interviews bad, or …
Sunday, January 26, 1986
Went to the flea market and it was raining. Then went over to the East Side
to the armory show. At Sotheby’s they’d just sold a table for $1.2 million. A
record. And at the armory there were all these people that I used to buy junk
from for $35, and if I’d only bought the $100 stuff, that stuff would be
worth a lot now, but I bought the cheap stuff. And now what people want is
only one of a kind. My art is just the opposite.
Tuesday, January 28, 1986
Brigid came in and said that her father had died and that she wanted to go
home, and I told her to keep on working. Paige was very sympathetic, but I
was trying to just, you know, make it less traumatic for her.
Thursday, January 30, 1986
Benjamin Liu came and gave me the tragic news that his costume jewelry
business is soaring and that he’s going into it full-time and won’t be coming
by for me in the mornings anymore. So an era has ended. I guess I’ll just be
going straight to work, which is just as well, I’ll get more work done. There
are other possibilities of people to try out, but Benjamin was special.
George the secretary at Yoko Ono’s called and invited me to a dinner
party for her big screening of the movie she and John made in 1972 and a
benefit concert at Madison Square Garden, I think for Bangladesh. And
there were a lot of other things to do but I decided to do that. I asked if I
could bring someone to Yoko’s and later they called and said okay, so I
asked Sam Bolton. He’s only interested when it’s big celebrities.
Was picked up by Sam and we cabbed to Amsterdam and 64th or 65th
for the screening and I was next to Jann Wenner (cab $4). And John was
such a great comedian, so natural on stage and those funny little movements
and good lines. Yoko was just screaming, it was one of her early
performances.
Then there was a dinner at Jezebel’s and Jann gave us a ride in his limo.
Roberta Flack was there and Earl and Camilla McGrath and we all walked
in and they were shocked with this glamorous place that they didn’t know
about. Jezebel redid it and it looks cleaner now. She kissed me hard on my
cheek. I was next to Roberta Flack and one of the Spinks brothers came in
wearing a big fur coat. And Michael Douglas came later.
And I guess I don’t know how to talk to little Sean Lennon. I’m too
abstract. Because Roberta Flack was so great with him. He said, “Roberta,
what is a torch singer?” And she said, “Well, Sean, a torch singer is
someone who sings with not too much music playing, very softly, and with
a lot of feeling.” And then he felt he understood. The sweet potato pie was
really good and then I realized it must have had bacon lard in the crust.
Afterwards Jann Wenner offered me a ride home and so Sam and I went
with him and I said he didn’t have to drive Sam downtown, that he’d get out
on 66th Street with me and just get a cab home, and Jann made comments
like he didn’t care what I did in my private life. So we got out at 66th and
Park and I gave Sam money to get a cab and I walked home ($5).
Saturday, February 1, 1986
Paige and I went to Global Furniture—they advertise. There was an
umbrella thing as big as a whole room that I’m thinking we should get for
the Madison Avenue part of the building so that the people across the street
can’t look down and see me painting. It’s such a huge umbrella, about 20’ X
20’. It’s only about $800. We were there all afternoon.
Sunday, February 2, 1986
I puttered around and then went to church, and while I was praying this guy
comes over to sell me a $100 raffle ticket. Can you believe that? For the
church. He forces this ticket on me and it’s this queeny decorator and then I
hear him back there telling somebody how he just sold it to me, and I think
he was actually getting rid of his ticket that he bought and didn’t want. And
they’re selling 300 tickets at $100 each, so that’s what, $30,000? And
they’re giving a $10,000 cash prize, so you just know what that means—if
you win they’ll want it back as a donation. He said, “I hate to disturb you
while you’re praying, but …”
Wednesday, February 5, 1986
I picked up a copy of Status magazine from the sixties, and it was so
interesting, all these people who were social climbing then and they still
are. And Wyatt Cooper was the editor. Gloria Vanderbilt’s last husband.
Paige was having a business dinner for Janet Sartin and Steven
Greenberg who was bringing Margaux Hemingway as his date. He picked
us up in his limousine and when Paige and I went out we caught him and
Margaux really kissing in the car and they got embarrassed when we saw
them. Went to Mr. Chow’s.
And the best thing was Burgess Meredith was there and I sort of know
him from years ago, he dated a girl who lived in the big apartment that I
shared with all those kids on 103rd Street. And when he was leaving he
came over to say hello, and he said “How’s your ex-wife, Paulette?” I think
he actually thinks that I was married to her, too. He was with a beautiful
girl, I couldn’t really see. It could have been a daughter or a date, I don’t
know.
Monday, February 10, 1986
At 7:30 the Mattel car came to take me to Pier 92 at 55th and Twelfth
Avenue where Billy Boy’s big Barbie doll exhibition was, and they were
going to unveil my portrait and the portrait looks so bad, I don’t like it.
Barbie (laughs) has problems. The fifties Barbie had a more closed mouth
and beautiful sensual lips, but the eighties Barbie has a smile. I don’t know
why they gave her a smile. I could never relate to Barbie because it was too
puny. Someone told me that the Arabs have just commissioned a bigger
Barbie. Fred said it was through Billy Boy that I got the portrait. I think he
asked Billy Boy to suggest it to Mattel. I’ll have to get this straight from
Fred, it was a surprise to me. I didn’t know how it happened. And I guess
Billy Boy has a lot of great sixties stuff because all those pictures in the
display cases were his—of Edie and me and all the Vogue things, and the
Cow poster. How does he have time to do this—collect his antique couture
clothes and design his jewelry? I think Bettina has done a lot for him. Fred
said Bettina was who the original Barbie was based on. I talked for a minute
to Mel Odom who designed a lot of the stuff in the show, he’s very talented.
And they unveiled my painting and the Mattel president said he just
couldn’t wait to see it and I just cringed.
Then left and went to the Peter Allen birthday party at Bud’s on
Columbus and 77th Street. Liberace came and he looked great. The papers
say he’s been sick but he doesn’t look it. He called me over to be
photographed with him but then it still looks like you’re pushing your way
in.
Wednesday, February 12, 1986
Paige was having a big business dinner at the Café Condotti. Rupert gave us
a ride up there, to 38 East 58th Street, and the place was cute, but kind of
like a Coca-Cola stand, that size. And I got a shock when I walked in and
Jed was there. I had my dates, the nutritionist Tama and Paige introduced
me to a couple of weeks ago at a blind-date dinner who I thought was blond
but he turned out in that light to be grey, and Bernsohn. Steven Greenberg
and Margaux Hemingway came. And Bettina came with Billy Boy and she
had on a black Azzedine outfit. His clothes look good on her. Jed designed
the restaurant and he put my Grape prints on the walls.
And then afterwards, Stephen Sprouse walked me home, and he said that
The Limited wanted to give him a contract but that he wasn’t going to do it.
Thursday, February 13, 1986
Went to Martin Poll’s apartment on Park Avenue for his party for Sylvester
Stallone and Brigitte Nielsen (cab $5). Everyone was supposed to wear red
and black so she wore green. Stallone used my kind of lines on me. He said,
“I read about you in every paper.” I told him the same thing and he said that
the Star was now even doing interviews with his mother, and I said that I
was reading them. That’s about all he said, and that was only at the end,
when they were going to the door.
And for a present I gave Stallone one of those paintings, Be a Somebody
with a Body, and he liked it a lot.
Friday, February 14, 1986
Worked a little bit and then went to Fiorucci from 4:00-6:00 to sign
America books and signed 185. And Billy Boy came by the store and then
Paige came and took us over to the Café Condotti for tea. And that was fun.
When we sit underneath all my Grape prints, it seems like it’s our place or
something.
And meanwhile, Jean Michel is really unhappy—Shenge is having his
one-man show. And I mean, he’s (laughs) just as good as Jean Michel. And
Jean Michel kicked him out and changed the locks, but then finally he let
him in to get his paintings.
Monday, February 17, 1986
I screamed at the Interview girls because one of them set off the alarm and
it costs $50 every time the alarm company comes. Even if you call them
one second after it starts and say it was a mistake, they want the $50 so they
tell you “The guy already left,” and he comes.
Rupert dropped me off. Heard about the Tylenol mystery on the news. I
watched Letterman and he’s suddenly gotten too sure of himself. Too cocky.
It’s not becoming on him. He had Raquel Welch on. Oh, and Sandra
Bernhard was on and she had some Diane Von Furstenberg-brand towel
paper, and she said, “Andy Warhol calls Diane Von Furstenberg and says,
‘Let’s go dancing,’ but she says, ‘No, I’ve got to clean up with my Diane
Von Furstenberg towel paper.’ “
Wednesday, February 19, 1986
No Benjamin, so I guess it’s really over. And I’m also losing Lidija because
now that she’s opening her own gym she can only give workouts in the
mornings, which I don’t want, so I’m going to have to find someone else. I
walked to work.
Went to 50/50 and then went to Speakeasy. Then we went up to the
office (cab $4).
Then I heard that Rupert’s friend Patrick had died that morning at 3
A.M. when he was taking a shower. He was in the hospital in Maryland and
he used to go to Rupert’s in New Hope, Pennsylvania for the weekends.
And usually he had two people with him, but he decided to take a shower
and he died in it. He was a guinea pig for a new treatment, so they don’t
know exactly what happened with him. So that was the bad news. The good
news was that Edmund got out of the hospital. Peter Wise was going over
there to cook. And I wish I could help him, somehow, but it was good to
hear that he got out.
Kent Klineman was at the office talking to Fred and me about the
Cowboys and Indians portfolio he’s commissioning.
Went to the Eric Fischl show at the Whitney and it was really
interesting. The paintings are off, the perspectives are wrong, but somehow
they’re right. They’re like Playboy illustrations. Talked to Eric. Thanked
Mary Boone for having us.
Thursday, February 20, 1986
There was a lunch at the office for three of Paige’s advertisers and also for
Billy Boy to give him a Barbie portrait. Bettina was with him. Rupert came
up with some work before he was going off to Patrick’s funeral. Anthony
d’Offay was there from London to check on the Self-Portraits.
Ended up the day watching the Letterman show with Ron Reagan, Jr. on
and he’s really changed. I was surprised he was so forward. And Letterman
was just so thrilled to have him on. And the daughter’s got a People cover
for her trashy book, so the whole family is out there hustling.
Friday, February 21, 1986
Worked all afternoon. Rupert didn’t come because he was still at the
funeral. Live for today, Dear Diary. Worked really late.
Saturday, February 22, 1986
At the office Sam tried to take pictures of me that I need to work from for
the Self-Portraits for the English show, and I’d done my hair in curlers and
everything and he just couldn’t get it right, and when Sam can’t get
something right right away he gets frustrated and quits and has sort of a
tantrum and I can see why he never finished school.
Sunday, February 23, 1986
I went to church. I still haven’t paid the guy for the raffle. I didn’t win, and
so do you think I should mail it to him, the $100? I don’t know, I guess I
will.
Fred called and said the Hammer & Sickles went low. My prices were
up until that de Menil auction and that brought them down. And Tony
Shafrazi’s show was bad for everyone. If he’d only waited and done it this
year. There was no rush, and then it would’ve been that we’d be still
painting together. But then all shows are like that—you have a show and
then it’s over, and you’ve used up all your material.
Monday, February 24, 1986
Cabbed to the office to meet Rupert and he was back from the funeral ($5).
I didn’t talk about it until later that night because I didn’t want to bring it
up, but he said it was weird. And Edmund calls Rupert all the time, at all
hours, because he’s so nervous. I invited Rupert to a movie after work.
It was a busy afternoon with people coming by. Gael came in to show
me pictures of Joe Dallesandro that Greg Gorman took for Interview, and
God, he’s still so handsome, he looks really good—his skin is really strong,
I guess.
Oh, and Dolly Fox is dating Steven Greenberg and asking me to find out
what the story on him and Margaux is. She said he picked her up at 8:00
and she was with him till 5:00 and he wants to see her again on Tuesday.
Saw the Rob Lowe skating movie, then took Rupert to Serendipity for
cake and the waiters sang and he felt better ($20).
Tuesday, February 25, 1986
Jean Michel called and said he found a dead person in his backyard
yesterday. He called the police and they were in the backyard all day, and
by 6:00 they still hadn’t taken the body away. He was from the flophouse
next door. And Jean Michel sent the cat that didn’t catch rats down to
Atlanta, he sent it on a plane for $100 down to some gallery there. The poor
cat probably never got taken care of—I mean, can you imagine being a cat
in the hands of Jean Michel?
Tried to work with Fred and with Vincent, but my room is so filled with
junk, I can’t pull out of it. I tried on wigs from Fiorucci but it looked like
too much of a big-hat wig, too outrageous. This is for the Self-Portraits.
Paige called a couple of times from the fat farm she went to and it was fun
talking to her. The Music issue is going to cost us a lot. Cyndi Lauper is the
cover.
Thursday, February 27, 1986
Oh and that lady Halston was supposed to bring down for a portrait
cancelled, but I mean, anybody who keeps telling you she’s got a check for
$999 million in her pocketbook is either having a nervous breakdown or
she’s on coke.
And Arnold Schwarzenegger never called back. He was going to have
Maria Shriver’s portrait done for a wedding present and then her mother
and cousins, too.
Friday, February 28, 1986
Sam and I went to the Eastside Cinema to see Hollywood Vice (tickets $12,
popcorn $5). The people behind us complained that they couldn’t see over
my hair, so that threw me and we moved over two seats. I didn’t move my
backpack with me, though. During the movie the Exit door opened a few
times. After it was over, we left, and when we got outside I realized that I
hadn’t taken my bag, so Sam went back in to get it and it was gone. So then
we looked everywhere, in all the bathrooms and things, and in all the trash
baskets, and we told the people at the theater, but it wasn’t anywhere and
they don’t care. It had bank statements and makeup and an ashtray from a
restaurant and receipts. No keys. Three oranges, telephone bills, my
Prudential health insurance cards, some money. So we ran around the block
checking every trash basket, Sam felt terrible, and a big truck almost ran
into us but missed us and ran into a lamppost. So I went home and I felt
violated. They stole the monkey off my back. But it’s actually a relief. I’ve
decided I won’t replace it.
And my brother told me that Victor Bockris has taken out an ad in the
Pittsburgh paper about getting people who knew me to talk to him for the
book he’s writing about me.
Sunday, March 2, 1986
Went to church and saw Adolfo and felt a little hurt because he walked right
by and didn’t say hello. In my mind I always picture him in a little Chanel-
type suit. I believe they should wear some version of what they design.
Went to Christie’s and Phillips, and since my bag was stolen I’ve had
invasion dreams. Nutty dreams with invasions. Went home.
Sam and PH picked me up and we went to the Hard Rock Café for Paul
Shaffer’s live radio show (cab $7). And Paul had Christopher Reeve there,
and he said he loved the Greg Gorman pictures of him in Interview. And
Peter Frampton was there and two Grateful Deads and two Cars. And we
met Steve Jordan, the drummer in Paul Shaffer’s band on Letterman, and
he’s just adorable—he’s intelligent and sexy.
I was mobbed by little girls on the way out and signed autographs and
then we got a cab and I gave Sam money to drop us off ($7).
Wednesday, March 5, 1986
Jay’s back from Paris and he said he had a good time there. All the de Menil
family was there, too, because Pierre Schlumberger died (phones $2,
newspapers $2).
When I got to the office I caught the tail end of a lunch for this guy
named Stringfellow who was opening a club on East 21st Street and he
acted funny and left in a weird way, so I began to think that maybe it was
because I hadn’t been at the whole lunch. And Fred didn’t understand,
either, what the problem was, but then later Paige called the girl who was
with him and found out that that was the problem, that he was offended that
I wasn’t there. He’s English. But then later on he called and did take an ad.
Friday, March 7, 1986
It was freezing out. Went with the nutritionist I met on the blind date to see
Out of Africa at the Greenwich Theater. It was two and a half hours long.
It’s another one of those movies where nothing happens—they do this and
then they do that and then they do this and then they do that, but there’s no
action.
Saturday, March 8, 1986—New York—New Hope,
Pennsylvania—New York
John Reinhold picked me up with his Japanese car and we went to New
Hope to talk to Rupert about art projects. His house is like a stage set.
Rupert is the grand man around town with two Bentleys. The house was a
mill, it looks like old Rome with the ruins in parts. Four Persian cats.
Fireplaces working all the time. His cousin, a girl, came from New York to
make a cake for us and she baked bread, too, which was the best thing.
New Hope is 90 percent gay. We went to a place called Ramona’s and a
drag queen served us and people were there drinking at 2 P.M. Gay old
guys. It was too gay for me, it drove me crazy. Like a time warp. A gay
hotel-motel. The drag queen looked like Rupert’s mother with the blonde
beehive. She had on pants but a four-inch leather belt really tightening in
her waist. And a guy came over and said Rupert was an alien and Rupert
said, “I am not an alien. I am Rupert Jason Smith” (lunch $60). And then
Rupert said I had to leave the drag queen a big tip since she stayed open for
us (tip $25). Gave me goosebumps. Then we went to places run by gay sons
and fat mothers. Antiques places. Then we went back to the house and the
girl had made a dessert, and we ate lots of bread. Then at 7:30 we left for
New York and then after John dropped me off I remembered that I’d been
invited to Chastity Bono’s birthday party.
So I cabbed downtown to Sixth Avenue between 9th and 10th, a
Mexican restaurant ($6). The party was in full swing. Every girl was like a
movie star, I mean, she’d copied a look. Some looked like Molly Ringwald,
there were three or four Madonnas. Cher didn’t come to the party because
she and Chastity had a fight. Chastity goes to the School of Performing
Arts. Stayed till 12:30 (cab $7).
Sunday, March 9, 1986
In the Times it said that Imelda Marcos left 3,000 pairs of shoes in the
Philippines. Maybe she was trash, I mean when I think about the type of
people they were wining and dining. And they found porno in Marcos’s
room. It’s like if somebody went through your apartment and wrote about it
(laughs) in The New York Times. “This Is Your Apartment.” That’s a good
TV show. “Here are two cups that were apparently taken from the Plaza
Hotel. Tell us about them.” They could do it in Russia. In Russia they could
really do it. “So, you like wearing ladies’ perfume, Mr. Warhol?”
Ran into Billy Boy at the flea market buying old bottles of Schiaparelli
and Chanel perfume in his powder-green coat. He really puts out the money
and just pays whatever they say, he spent about $1,000 I think. He has a
good eye, he can really pick out the good stuff.
Thursday, March 13, 1986
It was raining hard. Paige and I went over to the Paris Theater and saw
Room with a View. Nothing really happens, an Out of Africa-type thing, but
it’s beautiful. Good views of Florence.
Friday, March 14, 1986
Gee, these artists who’re living the life of Riley. Keith’s just off in Brazil
and I hear Fischl’s getting $100,000 a canvas now, more than Schnabel.
I was picked up by Steven Greenberg in his limo and we went over to
Stuart Pivar’s for an advertising dinner. And Paige was in her Chinese robe
so Stuart put his on and then Dennis Smith the ex-fireman who wrote a
bestselling book put on a caballero hat with a rose in his teeth and he’s
Irish, so he was singing and getting ready for St. Patrick’s Day and that was
unusual, it was fun. Then he mentioned having five kids, and I don’t know
what happened to the wife, so Paige had been interested, but when she
heard “five kids” that was too much. But he’s really great, very intelligent.
He’s now looking for a hostess.
Sunday, March 16, 1986
I went to church. Adolfo was in the last row. Gave the doorman at one of
the buildings on the way an Interview, and he was black and I always feel
good giving black people the magazine when it’s a black cover like the
Grace Jones issue and the Richard Pryor one this time.
And the Marcoses are still all in the news. Now they’ve found 3,000
black panties. And it’s funny to hear a congressman say, “Why did she need
so many panties?” I wish I had the shirt that the Marcos son once gave me
right off his back a couple of years ago. And their Bulgari bill was for a
million.
Tuesday, March 18, 1986
Arnold Schwarzenegger called and said the portraits of Maria were on
again.
Paul Morrissey’s doing movies with David Weisman now.
I bumped my head yesterday and got dizzy. I think I might have got a
mild concussion.
Then cabbed to meet Paige and Henri Bendel at a Chinese restaurant on
44th and U.N. Plaza (cab $5). Mr. Bendel owned Bendel’s till he sold out in
1955. Now he just has the handmade shoe company, Belgium Shoes. He
said he’s lonely so I said why didn’t he get a dog and he said that he had a
beagle and then he was walking it on the leash and it went to the curb and a
cab just ran it over on the leash. And he had to go back and tell his wife
who was still alive that the dog was killed. He’s from Louisiana.
Went home and watched Letterman and he had some good pet tricks on.
Wednesday, March 19, 1986
It was a beautiful day. I had a meeting with Martin Poll and I didn’t know
why. I walked over to 57th and Seventh Avenue to his office and he said,
“We want to do your life story,” and he started talking about the sixties and
interweaving four stories, and I told him that a wonderful movie had
already been made on the sixties, and that he should just remake it— The
Magic Garden of Stanley Sweetheart—and he said, “I made that movie.” I
completely forgot that he had. I didn’t know that. He discovered Don
Johnson. He was going to use Richard Thomas and then changed to Don
Johnson. So then I mentioned money and he said, “Money? Money? What
money? It’s publicity for you.” So I told him he should talk to Fred, that
what he should do is just buy the rights to Popism and that we’d be
consultants on the movie. PH would do the script. And then he started
talking about Viva and Joe Dallesandro and everything and I ran out of
there (newspapers $2, cab $6).
Went to Walter Stait’s dinner party on East 57th Street (cab $6). Then
took Sam to Serendipity. Had a hot fudge sundae and the sugar made me tip
so much. I felt generous ($25).
Got home, turned on Letterman and saw the show they wanted me to be
the guest on, the one with the monkey with the camera, and they had Dr.
Ruth Westheimer on. Wouldn’t it be funny if Dr. Ruth didn’t really have an
accent?
Brigid just called and said that at A.A. everybody in the office was there
—Don Munroe, and Yoko Ono’s maid who I like, and Kate Harrington and
Sue Etkin and no wonder nothing gets done—we have a bunch of drunks
working for us.
When I called the office yesterday and asked Michael Walsh for a phone
number from the Rolodex he was gone two minutes and came back and told
me my own number! So I screamed, and he said, “Oh sorry, I guess hearing
your name made me look up your number.”
Thursday, March 20, 1986
Si Newhouse came to the office and he’s not sure about buying the Elvis
and the Tuna Fish.
Monday, March 24, 1986
On the news they busted a porno ring, and they were leading the Boy Scout
master and the teacher out tied with rope. (laughs) It was odd-looking.
Went home after dinner with Jean Michel and caught the Academy
Awards. Saw Geraldine Page saying she deserved it, and all those old ladies
coming out in eight yards of material—Debbie Reynolds and Cyd Charisse
and June Allyson and Ann Miller and Kathryn Grayson.
Tuesday, March 25, 1986
Maria Shriver called and postponed until next week because she said she’d
broken four toes.
Went to the Grand Hyatt to the Emmys with Keith. I told them I didn’t
want to say any lines, so they announced I had laryngitis and that’s why I
wasn’t saying anything. But when they announced that, some people
laughed—they knew. And then this guy who said he was the doctor of the
Emmys came and said he’d fix my laryngitis, so I explained I didn’t really
have any.
After this thing was over, walked over to the office and there was a
lunch going on. Mrs. de Menil was with Iolas there, and Fred gave them a
tour and he got mad at me because I wasn’t with her enough. Iolas’s bags
were lost but he says he loves shopping at Alexander’s to replace the things.
Wednesday, March 26, 1986
Oh, these commercials on TV for the Enquirer. Carroll Baker’s doing them
this week talking about the book she just wrote about her experiences in
Africa in 1970. I honestly think it’s made up. She probably read a nature
book and said those things happened to her. Who would know? She talks
about being so hungry she bit off a lizard’s head and sucked out the fluid.
But I mean, maybe she was giving a blow job in a tent and a lizard walked
by and she fantasized.
I’d invited Sam to the opening of the Fellini movie Fred and Ginger at
MOMA. I get so involved with Sam, you can waste a whole day with
somebody and their dumb little problems.
And then Fred said, “Why am I working here if you’re not going to be a
good artist!” He doesn’t like my work. And I told him that if I did this other
stuff, the young kids do it better. Really, what is life about? You get sick and
die. That’s it. So you’ve just got to keep busy.
We got to the museum really early. And after it was over, Fellini was
being photographed and he saw me and he was great, he called me over and
kissed me on both cheeks and introduced me to his wife who really looks
good in person.
Thursday, March 27, 1986
Went to Le Cirque to meet Paige and Gael and someone from Young &
Rubicam for dinner and Claire Trevor came in with Donald Brooks and she
told me I was wonderful and I told her she was and she said, “No, you’re
more wonderful,” and I said no, she was. And she ate like Paulette and
those women—she had shad roe with three strips of bacon and cigarettes
and vanilla ice cream. Then Keith Haring was having a party for his TV
segment on 20/20 (cab $6). We got there just as it was over.
Sunday, March 30, 1986
Easter Sunday. Woke up and it was a beautiful day again. Paige called and
said she’d be ready at 12:30 and then Wilfredo called—I’d asked him to
come, too. We were going up to help serve the Easter meal to the poor
people at the Church of the Heavenly Rest at 90th and Fifth Avenue. Picked
up Paige and she said Stephen Sprouse was in the subway on his way (cab
$3). It turned out we were really needed because if we hadn’t been there
they wouldn’t have had enough helpers. I never made eye contact with the
people, I looked sideways and up and down. It went fine. And people were
stocking up with oranges and apples and Easter eggs and with shopping
bags, taking stuff, and some people were collecting cups and even plastic
knives and forks.
And let’s see what else … a lady had her teeth in a napkin and the guy
went to clear it away and she got excited. It was a lot of hard work.
Wilfredo was good, he handed out the ham, he worked hard. They used six
of those restaurant urns of coffee. And the four of us prayed and we saw a
lady bring in a potted plant and trade it in for one of the better ones there. A
lot of the ladies looked like my mother. A man looked like something from
Arabian Nights, all wrapped up. It was fun, had a good time. Outside it was
sunny and bright and we ran out.
And James Cagney died.
Monday, March 31, 1986
It’s funny but after seeing Dr. Ruth in person at the Emmys she doesn’t look
like she seems on TV. The magic of TV is what makes her look crunchy. In
person she’s just a normal person you want to kick around.
Cabbed to the West Side ($3) and Dr. Linda Li. She was messing up my
wig, my brain wasn’t functioning. I don’t know what she does, but you do
feel better when you get out of there (phone $2).
The Folk Art Museum kicked me off the board of trustees! It was
ridiculous anyway, but I mean, they never even bothered to send me a
notification!.
Tuesday, April 1, 1986
Stuart and I went up to see Rock Hudson’s exhibit at the William Doyle
Gallery (cab $3). And the whole thing was so nelly, not one good thing.
You’d like to think that a big brute movie star would have had great fifties
stuff, like maybe big rugged Knoll pieces, but it was just comfortable nelly
junk from his New York apartment. There was only one sort of nice thing, a
wooden box that was so ugly and Elizabeth Taylor had written on it.
Fran Lebowitz came by to pick up some art that Bob Colacello promised
her when she was writing for Interview. She came in her beige Marathon
Checker cab and she drove off with it.
Thursday, April 3, 1986
Went right downtown because Maria Shriver was coming at 11:00 (cab $5).
And she’s really pretty and she took good pictures. She’s a little heavy on
the bottom. She was cute, she talked a lot.
Paige and I wanted chocolate on the way home so we stopped at
Neuchatel, and they gave us free quarter-pound bags and we just walked up
Madison eating it. Dr. Li gave Paige some flower-water stuff and after she
eats the candy she’s supposed to say, “I love what I just did, but I won’t do
it again,” and then drink the purple Flowers of Providence.
Friday, April 4, 1986
Rupert made some printing mistakes. He has a new boyfriend who goes to
Princeton and this one looks exactly like him. Exactly. It’s so odd. Elizabeth
Saltzman invited us to a surprise birthday party for Wilfredo out in Coney
Island. She had an All-City cab pick us up.
It was kind of exciting out there at this place called Carolina’s, a Mafia-
style place. Spaghetti. Coney Island was closed up and rainy. It was just
Wilfredo and Benjamin in drag and Kate Harrington. The Italian owner
found out who I was and got autographs. Then the lights went out, totally,
and then they came in with a lighted birthday cake singing “Happy
Birthday” and these big butch fifty-year-old waiters came in, and Wilfredo
groaned and resigned himself and braced for it, and then we waited and—
they went right by us to another table! (laughs) It was so shocking. It was
like when you think you’re getting an Academy Award and it goes to
somebody else. It was worth the whole evening. It was just great. We
couldn’t believe it. And then later on they did come for Wilfredo.
Sunday, April 6, 1986
Jean Michel was picking me up to go see Miles Davis at the Beacon and it
was rainy and cold, and I curled up and watched TV for a while, and ate
some garlic and then he called and said to meet him over there (cab $4). His
cab arrived after mine and he had Glenn O’Brien with him and some other
people. He and Glenn are friends again. B.B. King played first and he’s just
great. And then Miles Davis came out, blond, in gold lamé, and he plays
really terrific music. High heels. Then we went to Odeon for dinner.
Tuesday, April 8, 1986
Worked till 8:00. I have to have the Maria Shriver thing done soon. I guess I
can’t go to her wedding because they won’t let me bring anybody. And I’d
have to stay in Boston and then go alone to Hyannis. Fred wasn’t invited.
He wasn’t even invited to Caroline’s. I think hers is before Maria’s.
Wednesday, April 9, 1986
Was picked up by Paige at 11:00. We went over to Elektra Records, and she
was in a funny mood all day and never got out of it. Then, at the end of the
evening, she handed me her video camera and said she didn’t want it, that
she wasn’t going to take pictures anymore.
Thursday, April 10, 1986
Missed lunch at the office, but got in a few good hours of work. Paige gave
me the rest of her camera, the attachments, and I told her I couldn’t use that
voltage in Europe but she said to do whatever I wanted with it, that she was
through with it.
Saturday, April 12, 1986—Paris
The gallery was pretty nice, and I guess the guy’s just trying to make a
name for himself (cab $5.00). Lavignes-Bastille. The dollar’s gone down
now in Paris so people are more interested in art. I had done the 10 Statues
of Liberty thing (cab $6). Wandered around Paris with Chris Makos and
Fred. Went to the Café Flore and didn’t meet anyone (dinner $100). Stayed
in and watched TV, caught up on sleep.
Tuesday, April 15, 1986—Paris
We were going to do live TV on this very famous Johnny Carson-type
show. When we got there they were setting up. All of a sudden they heard
about Libya being bombed, so the main guy had to leave and he left some
lady there, so then they weren’t interested in me anymore but they had to
pretend to still be, and I don’t know if they were really doing it or just going
through the motions. I think they just faked it. They didn’t even ask me
anything and it sounded like they just made it up. They said they put it on
tape but I don’t think they did (cab $10, $5).
Went to an Arab restaurant or Libyan, one of those kinds of restaurants
in the rich area, near YSL. It was fun, started to rain more. Couscous (lunch
$75).
We had dinner with Billy Boy and all the people from the gallery and it
was like a twenty-course dinner and Billy Boy said he was a health-food
person, that he didn’t drink, but there he was drinking right in front of me
while he was telling me. He ate meat while he told me he didn’t, too. He
was great company because all you had to do was say “Barbie,” and he just
talked away and that solved everything, nobody had to worry about
conversation. We had a good time and then Chris went off with Billy Boy
and did the nightclub scene.
Monday, April 21, 1986—New York
Sam didn’t call. Paige didn’t call.
Cabbed to 33rd and Fifth ($6) and then the party problems started. I was
planning to have a surprise birthday party for Sam, but then Paige had
already organized one, but Paige wasn’t talking to me. I called her at
Interview and she said, “I’m working, I can’t talk.” I said, “Paige, it’s me.”
And she said, “Yes, well, I’m very busy.” And so she was mad at me, but I
knew she was mad at me before we went to Europe because she gave me
the camera, and now Paige without a camera just isn’t herself, there’s no
more darting around and being hysterical. And this went on all afternoon,
and then Jean Michel called and came over and Paige came in while we
were sitting together, and that was tense, and then she said that she would
set up the dinner for Sam’s birthday at Odeon but that she wouldn’t be
going to it, and she left work early. And then somebody at the office talked
to Paige and told me what was wrong and we straightened everything out—
she was mad that I didn’t call all the time I was over in Europe, since she
always calls me when she’s on vacation, and also because she said I led her
on right up until the last minute, letting her think I would make it okay with
Fred that she could go on the Paris trip and then instead we took Chris. Fred
just didn’t want the extra work—it’s so easy to dump Chris at a hotel and
with Paige it would’ve meant finding her a nice hotel and then picking her
up and having dinner and seeing advertisers, and all that. And Fred was so
grouchy on this trip and I told him he was and he said, “I’m old enough to
be rotten if I want.”
And so at the office I talked to the girl from the Schwarzenegger
wedding and they won’t let me bring somebody so I told them I just
couldn’t go alone, and so she started giving me my choice of people to go
with and she said, “You can go with Grace Jones.” I said, “Grace is not
reliable. And if she did go she’d bring her own people, anyway.” And then
they said, “Well Abe Schmuck is coming, you can go with him,” and I said,
“I don’t know Abe Schmuck.” And then they said, “Joanne Schmuck is
going,” and I said, “I don’t know Joanne Schmuck.” And then they said,
“Lady Schmuck is going, you can go with her,” and I said, “I do not know
Lady Schmuck.” And I mean who are these nobodies? I said, “I guess I
can’t go.” So I guess I’m not going. And Fred said not to try to get him
invited, since he hadn’t been invited on his own. And Maura Moynihan
called and said she hadn’t been invited to the thing but that she was going
up anyway, to Boston, because Kerry Kennedy and Mary Richardson were
going to be there.
So anyway, Paige and I sort of made up and so it was over, it was
interesting. It’s weird that Paige would get so emotional about me. And then
I had to be creative to think of birthday presents for Sam during the fight
with Paige. I stuck money in that grandmother-type birthday card, and I did
a canvas that had dollars pasted onto it and then I remembered they even
make those sheets of money, but this you can just rip money off when you
need it, like for tips. Went home and Geraldo Rivera was starting to open Al
Capone’s secret rooms on live TV in Chicago, but it was going to go on for
two hours.
Sam picked me up (cab $10) and we went to the Odeon. And Paige had
some advertisers there to do some business, and I told her to invite Keith
and his new Juan, and then Billy Boy had just arrived in town from Dallas
and Paige invited him, so it was actually fun and not strained. And Keith
gave Sam a radio from the Pop Shop which he just opened, and Paige gave
him a book on the White House and Wilfredo gave him boxer shorts from
Armani.
Tuesday, April 22, 1986
Dilly-dallied around. Went to the office. Gael came up and made those mm-
mm noises she makes and she mmm’d and looked at her portrait. I decided
to make it a portrait, not a drawing, just because it was easier. She was hard
to do. She has good eyes but her jaw was difficult. She was thrilled, I guess.
Grace Jones called with laryngitis and I said that maybe I’d rent a plane for
the Schwarzenegger wedding on Saturday, so maybe we’ll go up together.
Wednesday, April 23, 1986
I didn’t call Grace yesterday but I guess we’re going to the Schwarzenegger
wedding because the weather’s supposed to be nice.
Walked down for a while then cabbed ($3) and there was a huge lunch
going on. There were Whitney Museum people and Shiseido cosmetics
people and someone from Guy Laroche. And the Laroche people told about
being in the same building with Adolfo and how the Adolfo people spray
their perfume in the lobby and then the Guy Laroche people come and scrub
it down and put theirs, and back and forth.
Billy Boy came by to see Gael for something and I caught him before he
left and invited him up, and it was a good thing I did because he entertained
those Shiseido people, he just filled up the lunch with Barbie talk.
Thursday, April 24, 1986
Brigid came rushing into the middle of the Fiorucci lunch and I don’t know
what was wrong with her—she had this gold bracelet and she said, “I got
the guy on the street down from $60 to $40.” And I just looked at her and
said, “Are you serious?” She said, “Look, it’s got 14K in four places.” And
Jay laughed and asked her, “Was it a black guy?” and she said yes. And I
said, “Don’t you know that they just sit there on the street with a little
stamper machine and stamp on the 14Ks?” And she wouldn’t believe us,
and I told her to go to the jewelry store on the corner and ask the guy. I bet
her $5, and then when she came back from the place she sent $5 upstairs to
me because the jeweler just looked at it and said, “No.” I didn’t want the
money, though—I just wanted her to have it tested. And Jay was wearing a
suit. He looks nice when he wears a tie and jacket, but then you can’t ask
him to do anything.
I called Rupert to find out where he was and he said Edmund Gaultney
was rushed to St. Vincent’s. He just came back from Taos. He was going to
move there. I don’t know why he was taking these plane trips, you really
pick up viruses on planes. Like he went to Key West before. And they
thought he’d had a heart attack, but it was an epileptic seizure. Now he’s in
a coma.
Friday, April 25, 1986
I talked to Dolly Fox and she said that Charlie Sheen sent her a ticket to go
to the Philippines. So that’s exciting. I read in the papers that Grace Jones
was taking me up to the Shriver-Schwarzenegger wedding in her plane, so I
guess Grace called her press agent and put that in so I guess that means
we’re going. And I called her a few times during the day and she’d answer
the phone and say hello in this low slurred voice and then hang up. She’d
stayed up all night I guess and was answering the phone in her sleep.
Peter Wise agreed to fly up with us—the wedding’s right near his house
on the Cape, and then drive us back to the plane, so that’ll be good.
Went over to Bernsohn’s and it was sort of fun. He gave me a bear hug
and asked if anybody’d ever given me one, and I said no. But I didn’t tell
him I didn’t want one.
Worked on drawings of Maria Shriver to give for a wedding present.
Saturday, April 26, 1986—New York—Hyannis,
Massachusetts—New York
I got up at 6:00, called Peter at 7:00. The doorbell rang half an hour early
and it was Peter with no Grace. He said he went to pick her up and woke
her up and she said to come back in an hour. The weather was just a little
off. Slightly cloudy.
We went to pick up Grace in the Village and she came out in Norma
Kamali black wool underwear. Also a fur Kenzo hat. She put her makeup on
in the car and in the plane. We arrived an hour late to the airport. The flight
was so easy, through this grey fog all the way and nothing happened,
whereas on a clear day sometimes you hit an air pocket and go diving.
Grace put on a green Azzedine in the ladies’ room of the airport. Peter
rented a car, a yellow station wagon, and he knew where the church was
and drove us there. Then he went to check on his house in East Falmouth.
The crowd outside the church screamed, “Grace!” and “Andy!” There
was the biggest mob I’ve ever seen around a church. We went in and they
had folding chairs near the door. Oprah Winfrey gave a speech. Jamie and
Phyllis Wyeth were in front of us and they turned around and said that we’d
caused too much commotion outside, they were funny. And at the car rental
we’d seen all these glamorous names like “Clint Eastwood” and “Barbara
Walters” and the St. James girl, but they weren’t there. And watching this
storybook wedding, you just wonder about what it’ll be like when the
divorce comes.
Jackie got communion so she walked all the way around the church with
John-John to show herself off, she looked beautiful. The church service was
an hour, and the wedding ceremony was fifteen minutes. They had a girl
singing “Ave Maria.” Peter was waiting outside and later he told us that
when Arnold and Maria went out they were nice for the photographers, they
rolled down the window and smiled and posed. But Jackie never smiled at
anyone, she was a sourpuss. And I guess they’d had parties for three days or
something, because everyone told me that at a thing the night before,
Arnold gave my portrait of Maria to the Shrivers and said, “I’m gaining a
wife and you’re gaining a painting.” And everyone was telling me how
great it was, they really loved it. And then a friend of Arnold’s brought in a
sculpture that Kurt Waldheim sent them and it was really ugly. And
Arnold’s always giving all these speeches, and he said, “My friends don’t
want me to mention Kurt’s name because of all the recent Nazi stuff and the
U.N. controversy, but I love him and Maria does too and so thank you,
Kurt.”
Outside the church there was a limo and a guy shoves us in and we
couldn’t see Peter. Then we got to the compound and Peter had seen us get
in the limo and followed us so he was right there. He handed me the
drawings I did of Maria, but then I didn’t know what to do with them. But
Eddie Schlossberg saw me and he said he’d put them in the house and I
thanked him.
It was freezing. Ran into an Austrian and he took us to a tent where
oyster openers were getting oysters ready and Grace wanted some right then
and there but they said they were being served to people in the other tent,
but then someone came over with a plate of them just for her and she ate
thirty oysters and then twenty more, just slurping them down.
And Christopher Kennedy was around, he’s so cute. Jackie was sitting
with Bettina. And Marc Bohan. I didn’t look at Jackie, I felt too funny. Then
there was dancing and music. Peter Duchin and his wife. He was (laughs)
going off to do another party. He works so hard. Grace began dancing and it
was like in a movie, everybody stopped to watch. She was dancing with a
little boy. We were at Joe Kennedy’s table with his wife. Talked to Nancy
Collins. I asked her if she was covering it and she said, “Oh no no no. This
is a personal thing.” She was best friends with Maria, I don’t know when.
We talked about the Stallone piece she did for Rolling Stone, which wasn’t
much, and she was annoyed with Stallone, she said he put her off six times
and then didn’t give her much time. But he only gave PH an hour and
Interview’s was really great, unusual. I was trying to take pictures but I
couldn’t get in there and really shove. Arnold’s body-building friends had
cameras and so the Kennedys couldn’t really stop them, but they had their
own photographer and they would say, “Oh, Chuck, would you come and
take this picture?” And so then the pictures all belonged to the Kennedys.
Like at Madonna’s wedding, they should have let guests take pictures
because people at a wedding, they’d just be doing it for themselves anyway.
Maybe years later you’d use them but you wouldn’t rush them to the New
York Post in the morning.
The food was so good, raw vegetables that they steamed while you
watched. Grace and Ted Kennedy danced. Then Grace and Arnold were
having a talk about what she should do about Dolph because he’s fucking
all her girlfriends. I told her she should marry Dolph just for a minute,
because it’d be such a great wedding. But I always give Grace the wrong
advice. I’m the one who told her she’d never make it unless she toned down
her look, that people would never go for anything so extreme.
The cake was six or ten feet high. Everybody was coming up and telling
me how they loved the painting. Shriver gave a speech, he was in tails. And
he was talking about “losing a daughter.” Well, I mean, she’s twenty-nine—
he’s lucky to lose her.
And Arnold gave a speech and was saying wonderful love things like
that he’d make her happy. It was the first time I’ve seen really announceable
love, saying everything all out loud.
Then it was time to leave and two Kennedy boys had Grace by the door
and one was rubbing his cock against her and then we went to the airport.
Sunday, April 27, 1986
The day started out early with my brother John and his wife. And it’s so
odd, it’s two people you don’t really know who look so different from you
and their ideas are so weird and it’s one more thing to make you think what
is this life all about. Their son Donald is still in college, he’ll get out in
August and he’s a computer expert so maybe we should hire him at
Interview if it’s not too late, if we don’t need somebody before then.
Went to the flea market and ran into Billy Boy with Mel Odom. When
the sun was out it was hot, but when it was in it was cold. Billy Boy wasn’t
in a money-spending mood. They really see him coming and jack the
Schiaparelli prices up. He could be good-looking, he has good proportions,
but he stoops over and he’s pigeon-toed, so you don’t notice. But then he is
about 6’2” and he had on a leopard jacket and tights and pointed shoes and
a Chanel-type cross and dark glasses and no makeup.
Imelda Marcos was on the news crying that she’s still in Hawaii and it’s
like those English movies where the relatives come into the dungeon and
say, “We love you darling, but we have to cut off your head because it’s the
thing to do.”
Monday, April 28, 1986
Went over to see Dr. Li and she said, “You’ve had champagne and cake,”
because obviously she’d seen in the papers that I’d been at the wedding. So
she blew it.
Then went to the office (cab $6). Fred ranted and raved at me when I
walked in, with his teeth showing and everything, saying that he couldn’t
entertain these people, that it was me they were waiting to see. And I said,
“Well I was at my doctor’s.”
Some lady was getting made up for a portrait. She’s one of those people
plastic surgery couldn’t help because it wouldn’t be much different. But she
has a nice pretty smile, and an open and loving personality. It was a lunch
from Café Condotti and there was so much of it. I screamed the other day at
Valerie from Interview who was dumping into the garbage all these
beautiful fresh tomatoes and basil, and she said she was doing it because it
was 3:00 and nobody had eaten it yet. These kids are so spoiled.
Then a TV crew with fifty people came to film me for a one-second
thing for Chemical Bank and they set up for so long and I did it.
Suren Ermoyan called and asked me to do the cover of Madison Avenue
magazine of Ted Turner and I said yes because he gave me one of my first
jobs, he was the art director at Hearst in the fifties, and then Fred screamed
at me. I feel bad because I also turned down doing an American flag for
them once.
Tuesday, April 29, 1986
Got to the office and had a talk with Fred about his mood the day before.
He’s still referring to what I told him in Paris, it stuck with him, about how
he should have a young attitude and stop being grouchy.
Keith called and said he was picking me up at 6:00 for the AIDS benefit
that Calvin was giving at the Javits Center, where they were going to take a
huge picture—done in sections—with Liz Taylor there and lots of
celebrities.
Got to the center, there were 100 students from F.I.T. and Parsons. The
place is huge and then it snakes around. Liz Taylor was late because she
was getting a dress from Calvin. And the little boy from Indiana was there
who they say has AIDS so they won’t let him go to school. He was really
cute. Brooke Shields was there looking so glamorous. She’s the most
beautiful living breathing doll I’ve ever seen. And I always thought
Cornelia was beautiful, but when she stood next to Brooke she looked like
an ugly duckling, everything was wrong, and she was saying things sort of
to Brooke but under her breath like, “Get away!” She didn’t want to stand
near her—she knew.
The mayor finally arrived and got in the center and Liz hadn’t shown
yet. It was supposed to be a shot of her and Calvin and the mayor. I was
talking to a kid and then he said he was an AIDS patient and you don’t
know what to say—“Gee, what a great party?” And then you looked and
there were spots, and that was back to reality.
Then Liz came in and everybody went crazy and mobbed her, and Keith
said, “What do you have to do to be that famous?” And then they dragged
her across the room and then all the photographers rushed at her and
smothered her and crushed her and when they had used her up, they just
dumped her and she was left standing there, alone, they’d gotten what they
wanted. It was so strange to see.
Jumped in the limo and went to Mr. Chow’s and said hello to all the
people we’d just said goodbye to. Grace Jones was making phone calls to
Rome—I don’t think Tina knew.
Thursday, May 1, 1986
Fred was being nice to me and then it came out what he wanted. He said,
“If you come to Europe to the Thurn und Taxis party it’ll ruin my whole
trip.” Because he thinks he’d have to take care of me. I guess he wants to
kick up his heels or something. But I can just take someone else with me, I
don’t know what he’s so worried about, I don’t have to go with him. It’s the
huge birthday party Johannes’s wife Gloria is giving for him—it’s days and
days of events.
And Sam was in a foul mood so we had a fight, I asked him to get me
some potato chips and he turned me down. He was just moping. And
Vincent asked him to do something and he didn’t. He says he wants a more
“important” job.
Saturday, May 3, 1986
Stopped at Sotheby’s. Looked at my paintings. Somebody put one of my
Ticket to Studio 54 paintings up for auction and somebody’s going to make
$5 or $7,000, that’s the estimate on it … I wonder who’s selling it. I gave
them to Halston and Barbara Allen, people like that.
Paige picked me up and we went to Kenny’s opening, but first we went
to the Pop Shop, Keith’s store that opened the other week that I still hadn’t
been to. And he has five people working there, two bosses and three kids.
And they get paid $8 an hour. But the store is hard to find, it’s that little bit
out of the way that makes a big difference. I don’t know if people will go,
but there were people in it. Bought watches.
Went to Kenny’s. It was a good party. They had three cooks there
making pasta under the right kind of light and it looked so chic. Kenny was
unusually high.
Monday, May 5, 1986
Cabbed to the office ($6) and it was really busy. Anthony d’Offay from
London was there and he’s decided he loves the Self-Portraits. They acted
so unsure before that I didn’t think they were going to take them, so when
Keith saw them and wanted to use them on T-shirts for his Pop Shop I said
sure, and I think they’ve made up 200 of them, so now I guess we have to
buy them all back.
And Bruno came by, and Senator Dodd, I don’t know why, and Peter
Beard dropped in and everything just all converged. I gave tours.
Then Sylvia Miles said to pick her up at 8:00 for the Liz Taylor tribute at
Lincoln Center. Cabbed uptown ($5). And Sylvia was all dressed up and we
walked over to Lincoln Center. Liz was an hour and a half late. Finally she
came and they showed clips and gave speeches. And I don’t know how she
gets work, she’s so late. And her mother was there looking so beautiful. She
was the one person Liz thanked. And Liz’s one beauty problem now is that
when she lost the weight her nose never did get smaller. The liquor’s still in
it. She has a twenty-inch waist now, though.
Tuesday, May 6, 1986
Wilfredo picked me up and we went over to Calvin Klein’s on 38th and
Broadway which seemed like a firetrap, you wait for the elevator for hours.
John Fairchild was twenty minutes late and they held the show for him. It
was great to read in Page Six that Jerry Della Femina’s ad agency did a
Perry Ellis ad and the boy model was reading a book and there was the
word “fuck” and Fairchild wouldn’t run it in WWD and Della Femina said
something like, “Who does John Fairchild think he is? He may be able to
push Jerry Zipkin and all the other walkers around, but not the ad agencies.”
So that was kind of great, hearing Fairchild get told off.
I thought the show was like mild Halston, with the sweaters tied around
the shoulders and things like that, coats and hats and pants and all lengths,
but Fred said it was “Rich Wasp.”
Tried to get work done (cab $4). Bruno had left candy for me and it was
all I could think about, sitting there, so I ate it and it gave me energy.
Rupert came up and he still has the same cough, but he said his
psychiatrist says it’s just a way of hanging on to the boyfriend who died.
Wednesday, May 7, 1986
Ran into Bianca and she thanked me for saving her life by sending her to
Eizo for shiatsus and now he gave her another person who’ll do additional
work on her. She’s not walking with the cane now.
Claudia Cohen Perelman was giving a party for Bill Blass, I went up at
7:30 (cab $5). It was heavy-duty. Their house is so chic, she had Jerry
Zipkin and Nan Kempner and Carolina Herrera. Do you think they’re
buying Bill Blass? A girl from WWD was there, and she’s the type who
wears no lipstick and asks tough questions, she’s going to go far.
And the big media news of the day was that Joan Rivers was going into
competition with Johnny Carson, and it was Barry Diller who got her for
the Fox network. She’s going to go on a half-hour earlier than Johnny. I
don’t know, though, it could backfire. You can get sick of people, it can be
overexposed, that same style over and over. Poor Johnny—one more
woman to worry about.
Thursday, May 8, 1986
Wilfredo picked me up and we went to the Perry Ellis show at 40th and
Seventh (cab $6). And at the end there was a pause and they carried Perry
out. And some people were crying, they said he had AIDS. Before they’d
been saying that he was just upset and having a nervous breakdown because
his boyfriend died of it.
Went to the Palladium for the late version of the Andre Walker fashion
show. And as we were standing looking over the balcony my crystal fell out
of my stomach onto the dance floor and I had to go down and find it.
Wilfredo actually found it. Tony Shafrazi was next to me when it fell. It
could’ve killed somebody. I wear it over my stomach between the surgical
corsets and it just fell out.
Saturday, May 10, 1986
On Madison Avenue all the people filing into the doorway of the new Ralph
Lauren store on 72nd—it looks like people walking into the subway
entrance at rush hour.
I had a weird confrontation with Tama at a blind-date business dinner at
Odeon. She started saying things to me like, “Do you believe in children?”
and “You can always adopt” and “You should get married.” And then she
said, “Maybe this is too personal for you, we can go into it another time.”
So now I’m thinking that maybe Tama has put ideas about me into Paige’s
head, because it was odd when Paige got so upset that I didn’t call her from
Europe. But then I thought maybe Tama’s doing this for herself. I don’t
know, it’s too odd. What’s wrong with them? Can’t they see they’re barking
at the wrong tree? Someone should set them straight.
Thursday, May 15, 1986
Vincent on the other line just said our Fifteen Minutes show won the
Fashion Show Video Award at the Palladium thing last night. I was avoiding
Paige because I felt strange about all that stuff Tama was saying to me the
other night.
Oh, and I’d talked to Halston and he said that I should get the “art press”
for the Martha Graham benefit and I told him, “Uh, Halston (laughs), art
doesn’t really have a ‘press.’ “ And he said, “No art press? No art press?”
This was news to him. He said, “Well then we’ll have to get UPI and AP.”
Friday, May 16, 1986
Worked till 8:00. Was picked up by Thomas Ammann at 8:45 to go to
dinner at Aurora on East 49th. Joe Baum who had the Four Seasons and
Windows on the World and the Brasserie has it. Met Stuart Pivar and
Barbara Guggenheim there and the place had sixty lamps, it seemed like a
lamp store. Stuart loved it, though. Why is Stuart looking for other girls,
with Barbara so in love with him and she’s pretty and intelligent and now is
even making lots of money? Why? It’s crazy. I mean, why did he leave his
family to just live alone the way he’s doing and worry all the time about
finding girls to have sex with? And actually, I think he’s only interested in
twelve-year-old girls. I see him looking at them. It’s sick. Creepy. I have a
feeling he likes to do things like smell dirty underwear, though. I just
(laughs) have that feeling about him. Barbara likes him because she says
it’s like not being with anybody, that he’s just absorbed in his own things.
He’s really interesting, though, he knows so much about art and music and
history and everything. The food was cold, but it came with those covers on
it like it was supposed to be hot.
Saturday, May 17, 1986
Fred was upset because I’m doing the Martha Grahams, that 300 more
prints of mine will be in circulation. And I’m upset because the Kent
Klineman contract for the Cowboys and Indians gives Klineman “final
approval” and I can’t believe Fred would let that happen.
And there’s that problem with that John Wayne print, they can’t get
permission for it because nobody can give it. It’s a still from a Warner’s
movie and I don’t know why it was even called a John Wayne because
otherwise you couldn’t tell who it is.
Ran into Tama, she said, “I’m sorry for asking you all those personal
things the other day.”
Sunday, May 18, 1986
We went to the Javits Center for the accessories show. Gave out 250 copies
of Interview. And I was so shocked at the show because I had just bought
some balls from a girl at the antiques flea market who had become sort of a
friend, she was from Max’s and everything, and she even told me this story
about how she got these one-of-a-kind balls, and then I go to the accessories
show and there was a whole crate of them! I was so hurt because I thought
she was a friend.
It’s why I stopped buying American Primitive, because people could just
paint it and bury it for a day and sell it to you. That’s when I got into Art
Deco because it was with a label and in books. But Stuart thought of a great
way to get even with her, he’s going to tell her, “You know that horse I
bought from you for $12? I sold it for $10,000. It turned out to be the
prototype for all those fakes.” He’ll just tell her that. Isn’t he smart? Isn’t
that great?
Oh, and did I say that Tama told me she once knew a girl who worked
for Stuart at his apartment, and this girl thought he was so peculiar because
he kept a quart of sour milk in the refrigerator and he would go to it once an
hour and smell it.
Wednesday, May 21, 1986
Anthony d’Offay flew in from London and he said he didn’t like my Self-
Portraits. Here’s a gallery owner being an art director. He said he liked the
other ones that I did but he didn’t like these where my hair’s up like Jean
Michel’s. And Rupert’s been working so hard on these. Edmund is still in a
coma. They’re talking about pulling the plug out. I’m so afraid I’ll get
senile and how will I know? I told PH it was up to her, that she’s the one
I’m assigning to tell me when I get senile, and she said, “I promise I will
tell you but I promise you won’t believe me.”
Stephen Sprouse called and he was going to the Palladium to Keith’s
birthday party. We went over to pick up Debbie Harry at the Chelsea (cab
$5). The party was fun, except that a cute actor named Tim stole my date,
Sam (laughs), because when Tim said he was staying, Sam said, “I think I
will, too.” I wasn’t upset, though, I was glad because then that means I
don’t have to feel guilty about going places with Wilfredo. Really I
was.relieved because I don’t want to get involved. It’s so nice not to get
bothered by anybody. Somebody asked me if Sam is homosexual or just
immature. I don’t know. He likes older women, but maybe he wants to be
mothered. Who knows? I wish I were twenty and could go through all this
again but I never want to go through anything or anybody again in my
whole life. Sam and I just kid around. But he cleans up well and he learns
things fast. But when somebody corrects him he gets an attitude sometimes
and that’s hard to change.
Thursday, May 22, 1986
I just read the interview the guy from Splash magazine did with me and I
don’t know how he made it so good because I wasn’t good when he was
doing it.
There was a camera crew waiting at the office, some English thing that
d’Offay set up, I don’t know what it was. I mumbled.
Left early. Was picked up at 8:00 by Sam (cab $8). Got to the Beacon for
the stage show Yoko was doing and she was on already. Met Stephen
Sprouse there. She was doing the happy years from 1980-81 in men’s
clothes and Reeboks, and I don’t know why she’s doing this. She looks
great but this is so stupid, she should be up there in furs and Armanis and
looking really rich. And she should let John rest in peace. All I can think of
is that Sean must really want his mother to stop this. He must be
embarrassed.
Then went down to Grace Jones’s birthday party at Stringfellow’s, it was
like a trip back into the seventies, neon dance floor and Bunnies with asses.
And there was no dinner, so we left there, we just wanted something to eat,
we were all hungry, so we went over to the Caffé Roma for just something
quick and quiet and we walked into this big scene, it was a dinner for Prince
Albert and Bob Colacello was there and Cecilia Peck and Cornelia Guest. A
hundred people to say hello to. Took the cheese off and ate the pizza.
Monday, May 26, 1986
Memorial Day. I went out with Stuart again and we went to the same
places, the auction houses, and it’s so great to go back more than once
because then the stuff starts to look bad to you and you get sick of it without
even buying it. Ran into Tom Armstrong and his wife.
Tuesday, May 27, 1986
Fred’s going to Europe on Friday to the big Thurn und Taxis thing. I’m not
going—he doesn’t want to take care of me.
Worked until 6:45 and then all the dishes from the lunch were still in the
kitchen and I told Fred that the kitchen was dirty and he looked at me and
said, “Well I’m not going to do the dishes.” Diana Vreeland has been really
a bad influence on him. I should’ve broken that up. In the old days Fred
would have been the first person to roll up his sleeves and start scrubbing. I
had already called for a car so I just had time to clean the coffeepot and I
guess Jay cleaned up the rest. Jay’s in a good mood lately. Maybe he has a
new girlfriend. Thomas Ammann saw Jay’s art and loved it, but that was a
one-time painting—he’s not painting like that now. The young artists are all
now doing abstract paintings because they’re making fun of that now.
They’re going through everything, making fun of every period.
Went to see Martha Graham with Jane Holzer and Halston. Halston did
the costumes. They did ballets from like 1906 and 1930 and it was funny to
see what dancers were like then—they were like hoochy-koochy girls.
(laughs) Ballet needs a new defector—you watch these Russian dancers and
we don’t have anything like that here. I was watching a Russian group do
“Swan Lake” and it was just such a difference.
Thursday, May 29, 1986—New York—Boston—
New York
Read an article about the “Billionaire Boys Club” kids who’re going on trial
in L.A. for killing Ronnie Levin.
At 2:30 was picked up by Fred and Kate Harrington because we had to
go to Boston. Cabbed to the airport. New York Air. I was reading this Peggy
Guggenheim book and the best part in it was when Iris Love finds out
(laughs) she’s Jewish—they take her aside and tell her in school.
Ted Turner’s on Donahue right now. He’s so smug. I hate him. Ever
since he wouldn’t say hello to me once at the White House.
When we got to Boston Mary Richardson picked us up and took us to a
Hilton Hotel. And Joe Kennedy came out and gave a speech and he’s not a
good speaker. He said, “That great American artist who brought art
down”—and Fred almost fainted—“to the American people.” Well I guess
Pop Art did, but he really is a bad speaker. He sounded so false, no heart to
it.
Sunday, June 1, 1986
Edmund Gaultney and Perry Ellis both died this past week.
Monday, June 2, 1986
Joe Kennedy came by with Michael Kennedy and I don’t know how he can
be running for things, he’s kind of weird. And they had a bodyguard with
them, they’d been down on Wall Street. And after they left I was having
trouble blow-drying a painting.
Wednesday, June 4, 1986
There was a lunch for forty-five at the office for Cris Alexander because
he’s retiring. Peggy Cass was there and I told her she should do a movie
about when they operated on her leg and it was the wrong one and then she
was crippled in both. And it was all because she wanted to be a good
Catholic and be able to kneel, that’s how she won the case.
Kent Klineman came by the office and he didn’t like the Annie Oakley,
and I said how could he not like it since that’s the way he made me do it.
And so then I asked him if he got the John Wayne thing worked out and he
said oh yes, that the son, Patrick Wayne, would give permission if I gave
him a painting that he could donate to charity, so that was all worked out,
and I said, “Uh, what?” He said Fred had agreed, but I know Fred never
would have. I mean, this was Klineman’s responsibility and I’m not going
to take it on for him. If Patrick wants a painting Kent can pay me to do it
and then he can donate it. And then it was time to go up to the Museum of
the American Indian to my opening, so I had to ride up to Broadway and
155th Street with him after this fight, just forgetting about it and putting it
behind us because you have to—these days you have business fights and
then just have to go on being friendly.
And Crazy Matty’s there to greet me, drinking wine. It’s a courtyard and
small buildings. Really nice, and they did a nice show. It was packed.
Friday, June 6, 1986
There was a dinner for the Oreo cookie at the Waldorf, and I really want to
do the cookie’s portrait. It’s having its seventy-fifth birthday.
I decided to take Wilfredo. All the cookie sellers were around, they were
all dressed to the hilt, and it’s sad to see these people who have to come
from all over the country and put on beautiful clothes to go to a cookie
party. As we were edging in, the security man said (laughs), “Mr. Warhol?
Are you crashing this party?” The P.R. lady had to come to tell him it was
okay. And the big cookie looks so great. The new giant-size Oreo that
comes just one-to-a-package. About five times the size of the regular one
and lots of cream and the chocolate’s so black and bitter, just great.
I was dressed in black and white so I looked like an Oreo, and when the
cameras were on I ate the cookies and said, “Miss Oreo needs her portrait
done.” So I hope the bigwigs get the hint. Oh, it would be so good to do.
Jerry Lewis was the emcee.
Wednesday, June 11, 1986
Rupert and I had a big confrontation at the office about Edmund’s memorial
service, about if I was going, so I went. The traffic was so bad and now I
know why commuters get heart attacks from stress, not that I was rushing to
get there, but if I had been it would’ve been awful. We got there at the end.
Edmund’s father looked like a Southern preacher, a movie character. He
was peculiar.
Then Paige and I walked to the Plaza for the Yoko Ono thing and she
had her shoes off and I told her she was crazy. I had her turn her Interview
T-shirt around because it was black tie (cab $4). Yoko and Sean were there.
Nona Hendryx was, too, and Roberta Flack got there an hour late. Cab
Calloway got a medal. It was a benefit to get Harlem kids adopted. And
when you see these kids you do really want to adopt one. They’re so cute.
I’ll give money to anyone who’ll raise one of these kids. Spread the word.
Then went to Hunter College where there was a party for the Rodney
Dangerfield movie Back to School. Got there and saw Sam and PH in the
thick of it, and my God, what groupies. They were packed in around him
with cameras and PH asked him to take a picture with me, and he was really
nice, he said, “Andy, I gotta give it to anybody who’s hung in there as long
as you.” Paige walked me home and everybody else went down to the
Harley-Davidson Biker Night at Area.
Sunday, June 15, 1986
Fred said at that the Thurn und Taxis party the birthday cake was one of
those old-fashioned cock cakes from the seventies—you know, with
hundreds of cocks on the cake and everybody got their own!
Monday, June 16, 1986
A crew that was filming me for English TV was at the office and I told them
that they should just follow me around the city and do it without sound, so
they said okay, and so I took Brigid’s dog Fame and we went around the
block. Fame shit and I cleaned it up so that was a good scene, and then we
walked to 27th Street looking for stores and there were two guys standing
there and one said, “I took pictures of you and Brooke Shields,” and the
other one said under his breath (laughs), “Cocksucker.” It was really good. I
don’t know if he really knew me or what, but there’s a lot of color out there
on the street.
Keith had a limo and I decided to go with him to the Carlyle for a party
for the Ellis kid who wrote Less Than Zero. He graduated from Bennington.
And as we were going in a bald girl with a fashionable ugly dress was going
in. I wonder if regular nonfashion clothes are out forever, if these kids will
ever dress normally like, you know, Phil Donahue again. It was such a cute
party. I never read his book, but someone sent it to me. All the kids had the
right fashionable hair and the fashionable right clothes. And I always think
California kids are tall, but these kids were all three feet.
Nick Rhodes called from London and said to call him when I got there,
and Julie Anne is expecting the baby in August. He said, “We’re expecting a
piece of sculpture.”
Tuesday, June 17, 1986
Fashion show at the Pierre of Bernard Perris clothes. Paige picked me up.
And these clothes, they’re like costume clothes. Like somebody just drew
this stuff and then somehow it got made. Hookers from Harry’s Bar wear
this kind of stuff, it’s expensive and you look at it and you know it cost
money, but you can’t figure out who would have designed it. Well, now you
know— Bernard Perris, they’re all wearing Bernard Perris. It’s sort of like
Nolan Miller’s stuff, like TV clothes. And next to me was Hebe Dorsey, she
writes for the International Herald Tribune and she raved about Peter
Marino. I just love her name. Hee-bee. If I ever have a child I’m naming it
Hebe.
Thursday, June 19, 1986
Got to the office and the lady from Florida, Dorothy Blau’s friend, was
there, and she didn’t like her portrait, she wants me to make her hair fluffier
which I know is not going to work. And Dorothy sent some of that really
good candy. Finally I left and went up with the crew to 42nd Street. Why do
these crews and everybody always want to go there? I mean, there’s
nothing there. Went home and saw there was a party Mark Goodson was
having for Norman Lear, so I went over there, to One Beekman Place (cab
$4). Bianca was there with Carl Bernstein. Cindy and Joey Adams were
there and I brought up Roy Cohn and she said he was on his last legs, that
she’d seen him when he came into the city for a small cocktail party
someone gave for him. And a lady was there and she said she’s so bored
since she stopped working and her kids grew up and I said, “Why don’t you
adopt a Harlem baby?” I told her how they’re so cute and that if you go up
there and plunk your money down it’s cash and carry.
Monday, June 23, 1986
Fred went to Doc Cox for a blood test, he believes you should know
everything, I don’t know why. But Rosemary wasn’t there to give it.
And Iolas called from the airport and said he’d be at the office in twenty
minutes and he was! How could he get there that fast? And Brooks Jackson
was with him, and he looked really bad. I didn’t want to ask about his wife
Adriana, I hear she’s dying now. The cancer.
Jay gave his ticket to the premiere of American Anthem to Len, the new
receptionist, who’s seventeen and about to go to Brown, so then Sam asked
Len if he wanted to go with us, which surprised me, because he usually
doesn’t do that, and Sam was shocked to find out that Len was only
seventeen and that he wasn’t the youngest kid at the office anymore. But
Len is really smart for a seventeen-year-old.
Wednesday, June 25, 1986
There was a screening of Ruthless People and that Danny DeVito is so cute,
we should all marry him, really. He’s just adorable.
Sunday, June 29, 1986
It was Gay Day so the parade was on. Went down to the flea market and ran
into Corky Kessler, who I haven’t seen in thirty years. Maybe forty. She’s
the one who once gave me modern dance lessons. She’s fifty-five or maybe
even fifty-eight. She had a nose job and everything so she has that out-of-
town look but she has a great young body. But then I don’t know if her
body is pulled together by bras and things. You never know. She asked me
about the rest of the old gang.
There were millions of girls in the Gay Day parade.
Stuart called and said Mario Amaya died of AIDS, and he was so upset
about it and I tried to make it light and he was just so upset saying Mario
was the most important person in his life and that he’d taught him
everything about art. And I said, “But Stuart, you’re not gay, why are you
so upset?” And for some reason I always forget that it was Mario who got
shot by Valerie Solanis, too, the day she shot me—he just happened to be at
the Factory visiting. Just sort of a skin wound, though.
Monday, June 30, 1986
PH got back from her weekend in Miami interviewing Don Johnson, and
the most fascinating thing was it turned out that in his down-and-out days
Don used to do scams in L.A. with the disappeared-and-probably-murdered
Ronnie Levin!
Tuesday, July 1, 1986
Arnold Schwarzenegger was having a party for the Statue of Liberty at Café
Seiyoken and I wasn’t even invited. And I wasn’t invited to Caroline
Kennedy’s wedding, either.
Friday, July 4, 1986
Sam picked me up at 2:00 in an All-City cab and we rode down to Tenth
Avenue and 23rd Street. Bought some souvenirs ($20). Didn’t seem like the
Fourth of July, there were millions of people all over town. The MTV boat
left at 3:15. Everyone got drunk. There were no really big stars. Vitas
Gerulaitis was there and Janet Jones, the actress from Flamingo Kid and
American Anthem. No rock people except a Bananarama girl. Annie
Leibovitz took pictures but only of the boats. Vincent and Shelly were there.
I had to hit a gong and I was terrible. The food was horrible, Dorito
chips and undercooked hamburgers from the Hard Rock and pork and
beans.
The MTV boat was the only ugly one—balloons all over it. The other
boats were all plain and elegant. We watched the president’s speech on two
TVs. At 7:30 Don Johnson came. A little boat brought him out to the MTV
boat and he had fifteen bodyguards and he was in a big fat hat and he
wouldn’t come on board unless they put steps down. He was with a girl
who looked like Patti D’Arbanville—but it wasn’t—holding his baby, and
then they came on board and went into a room and never came out to talk to
anybody.
And at 9:45 the fireworks started, and we were pretty far away from it.
Finally the boat docked and they whisked Don Johnson into a limousine
and we looked around and found a couple of gypsy cabs.
Oh, and the best thing was that when we were getting off, the Z Z Tops
saw us and took us into the Z Z Top room and that was fun, they want to
visit us when they come back in August (cab $30). Dropped Sam.
Sunday, July 6, 1986—New York—London
Chris picked me up so early (limo $70, magazines $30, porter $10). Got the
Concorde. Was met by Anthony d’Offay, went to the Ritz Hotel (porters
$20). I had a really big double room, like three rooms. The phone ran and it
was Billy Boy. Then Tina Chow called and said that dinner was on. I told
her not to have a party for me but she did it anyway.
Cabbed to Mr. Chow’s ($7.50). It was fun, and she had all these great
people. Mick and Jerry Hall, Nick Rhodes, Billy Boy, and all the English
swells. Everybody was really sweet to us. Tessa Kennedy, Jennifer D’Abo,
Ramon, Robert Tracy, Rifat Ozbek, Manolo Blahnik, Jerry Zipkin.
Monday, July 7, 1986-London
Billy Boy was around constantly. Went to the gallery and it was great,
looked at the pictures, it was kind of exciting (cab $5). Before dinner I
ordered tea sandwiches. Cabbed to Mark Birley’s club, Mark’s, for dinner
(cab $7).
Tuesday, July 8, 1986-London
Went to lunch at the gallery because it was my opening that night. And then
went back to the hotel (tip $5). Had more tea sandwiches. Got some jewelry
from Billy Boy to wear to the opening. Then went to the gallery and it was
really crowded, so I autographed for two hours. Those cute kids were there
who want us to do their music video—“Curiosity Killed the Cat.” Chris
followed up on them, kept calling. Lots of photographers. Then there was a
big dinner after that at some old arts club called Café Royale where artists
would have big openings, like Augustus Johns. D’Offay had about a
hundred people, it must’ve been expensive. Then Fred took me home.
Ordered up tea sandwiches.
Wednesday, July 9, 1986-London
This is the week in between Wimbledon and Fergie’s marriage, so it was
exciting. The week Boy George was being in the papers for his heroin
problem and they were trying to find him, big headline news.
Chris and Billy Boy came to my room for breakfast (tip $10). Then did
the same old thing—wandered around London (cab $8).
Thursday, July 10, 1986-London
Took pictures of Big Ben and things. All the funny English spots. Bought
some magazines ($20). Went to dinner and then had to go to Heaven and
met Gloria Thurn und Taxis and her husband Johannes. She was sort of
cruising for him. Billy Boy and Chris were there.
Fred and I snuck out. Billy Boy had a fight with the paparazzi (laughs)
because he wanted to be in the pictures (cab $10). I asked him to come to
the room to chit-chat and he said no, that he just wanted to “go home and go
to bed.”
Friday, July 11, 1986-London
I found out Billy Boy ran right back to the disco and was up all night social
climbing.
A society lunch at Marguerite Littman’s on Chester Square (waiter $5,
cab $8). It was really fun. She’s so together. Her husband’s the lawyer for
the queen. Dagny Corcoran was there and some other glamorous ladies. So
after that we went off to the King’s Road with Chris. We didn’t invite Billy
Boy.
Saturday, July 12, 1986-London
Our outing to Catherine’s. Had breakfast, got in a car and drove for two and
a half hours to Gloucestershire. Catherine was fun. She’s now Lady
Neidpath. She took us around and gave us a tour. She dropped a whole bowl
of spaghetti at lunch and just picked it up and put it back in another bowl
with the glass in it and everything, and then served it to the people who
came later like Kenny Lane. They barbecued beef but it started raining.
They dropped a bowl of raspberries and picked them up, too. Pretty table
setting and grand. So dirty in the kitchen with children and dogs and maids.
People with babies serving. Catherine really did a lot of the work herself.
Sunday, July 13, 1986—London—New York
Got up at 7:30, I don’t know how I did it. I’d been reading the biography of
Cecil Beaton. I’m in it a lot when I knew him. And Sam Green was in
everybody’s life, such a big part—he’s had Yoko Ono and John Lennon and
Cecil Beaton and Greta Garbo and me.
We got lots of work, sold a lot of paintings in London—one to Carnegie-
Mellon—and Anthony d’Offay even said he’d pay for Chris’s hotel bill,
which he’ll die over when he sees that Chris made eighteen phone calls a
day to New York. And Chris got five jobs over there—one from Polaroid—
and he actually thanked me for the trip. I only wish I could think of a more
deserving person to give these opportunities to. But in his own way Chris
does take care of me.
The show. The show. I mean, walking into a room full of the worst
pictures you’ve ever seen of yourself, what can you say, what can you do?
But they’re not the ones I picked. D’Offay “art-directed” the whole show—
he’d tell me he wanted a certain picture, and then I’d think he’d never
remember, so I’d do the one I liked instead, and when he’d come back to
New York he’d say that that wasn’t the one he’d picked. And he didn’t want
the big camouflage, he wanted the little ones. But he had class, he arrived at
the hotel with his wife at 7:30 in the morning to say goodbye. I thought they
were going to ride with us to the airport, but they didn’t, so that was good.
His hotel bill for us will be about $10,000, I think. Yeah, he was nice.
Oh, and God, Billy Boy turned out to be a nightmare! By the end of the
trip everybody hated him. It was worse social climbing than anything Suzie
Frankfurt ever did and as Fred said, at least Suzie was always an old friend.
Everyone we’d introduce him to he’d have their phone number in a minute
and be inviting them to lunch and giving them his earrings and everything! I
mean, he was on my TV show for hours! One they did on me. And he was
popping into every picture and one photographer told him to get out of it
and Billy actually hit the guy (laughs) with his own camera. And I’d be up
so late reading, like to 5 A.M., and then I’d get calls early in the morning
—“Is Billy Boy there?” He’d tell people he could be reached in my room
for breakfast! He did bring me flowers one morning, though. He’s like a
more together Jackie Curtis. And Chris really hates him now, too. They had
a big fight because when we ran into Gloria Thurn und Taxis and her
husband at Heaven, Billy was so sweet to them but after they left he said, “I
hate those fascists,” and Chris got mad at him. I guess Billy Boy felt he
should’ve been invited to their party or something.
Tried to make phone calls but my hands could hardly move. Fred said
that all the chic people were in Europe, that they’d skipped the Statue of
Liberty thing. Like Jerry Zipkin and Ahmet. How would that happen? Do
they call up Nancy Reagan and ask her, “Will the Statue thing be any
good?” and she says, “No"?
Monday, July 14, 1986
It was good to see the good old New York papers again (newspapers $4). I
read in “Suzy’s” column about the party Tina Chow had for us in London
and it sounded so great.
Paige still seems to be mad at me. I guess she’s just living her own life
now. It’s better that way.
Gael said that Albert Watson got the job as the queen’s photographer.
And after I just am reading Cecil Beaton and how much that meant to him.
Tuesday, July 15, 1986
Wilfredo styled Milton Berle for Interview and got his autograph for me,
which I hadn’t gotten when I did Love Boat. He was just on one of the
morning shows and he walks on TV like he owns it, it’s so great to be that
confident. He asked Wilfredo, “Should I sign it with my dick?” He looks
like an old tailor.
Victor came by and he said that Halston wants to meet with me without
Paul about Montauk. But we’re not making any money off renting it to
Halston, it just pays the mortgage.
Wednesday, July 16, 1986
Cabbed to the Palladium ($6). John Sykes was up on stage. And they were
showing the TV show that this MTV kid had gotten together in five hours
and it was great. It was everybody saying things, putting down John, like a
roast.
And Steve Rubell was there, he bought the Diamond Horseshoe that
used to belong to Billy Rose. Which is I guess in the West 40s near Eighth
Avenue. I took Dolly Fox to this and got gossip out of her. She’s still living
with Charlie Sheen, he gave her some pearls which were beautiful—I think
they’re dyed black, though, but they’re beautiful—and he gave her a
diamond ring.
Oh and yesterday Gael told me to check into whether Ron and Doria
Reagan were breaking up. I told her that if she had a scoop she should call
People magazine and make $150. (laughs)
Brigid was just on the other line, and she said that her mother doesn’t
have much more time. She doesn’t seem sad at all, just like she wasn’t
really when her father died. She seems sort of thrilled.(laughs) I don’t know
why I say that, but I do. She’s going to be getting millions.
How do these doctors really feel about sick people? Do they care about
you and really want you to get better or is it just a business? I mean, I think
about doing portraits and do I really care if they look good or is it just a
job? And that’s just a superficial thing—it’s not life and death.
In the morning I’d gotten Stuart to go to the crystal doctor with me. He
said how could I be going to these people when I’m supposed to be smart.
So we went to Bernsohn’s and there was a visiting doctor there, American,
but he lives in Japan. And he has a new crystal that’s for rolfing, a big round
one. It does what rolfing does when they knead every muscle, but without
doing that. And the doctor tried it on me and told me to think of white light
and white arrows, and Bernsohn and the doctor were in a circle holding
their hands up around me and Stuart’s eyes were just rolling up, he couldn’t
believe it.
I always wear two crystals—a ‘ vitalizer” and another one. They look
like diaphragms. Dr. Reese’s son manufactures the crystals. They’re called
Harmonics.
Thursday, July 17, 1986
Worked till 7:00. And then Ric Ocasek was picking us up to take us over to
Madison Square Garden. Ric has a girlfriend, Paulina, who’s a big model
and Czechoslovakian and her mother was with them, and she looks even
younger than the daughter. And I guess maybe I’m not really Czech,
because I didn’t understand it when they were talking.
And we went to the Garden and I didn’t know this could be done but the
limo drove right into the Garden. You drive right (laughs) onto the stage.
Yes, you really do. Ric and Dylan have the same manager. And he kept
saying to me, “You have total freedom, total freedom. Go anywhere, take
pictures anywhere—in the bathrooms, on the stage, anyplace.” And they
took us into the room and Dylan was there and Tom Petty and Ron Wood.
And Tom Petty’s daughter was around, or maybe it was his wife. She
looked just like him.
And Dylan looks good, he had silver-tipped cowboy boots on and he
was drinking Jim Beam. And even though they’d told me I had “total
freedom,” I’m glad I asked before I took a picture of the three of them
there, because Dylan said no. And then later Ric found out that Dylan was
in a bad mood because he had just had a big fight with his girlfriend who’s
forty or fifty who I think works for the record company and at the end of
the fight she’d said something to him like, “Oh go out and play your ‘Mr.
Tambourine Man’ or whatever.” And that would kill your mood—when
your lover calls all your work you’ve done in your life (laughs) “whatever.”
So I guess he was left without an ego with a show to do.
And the Pressman kid who owns Barneys was there, he’d been at the
MTV party the night before, he goes to all these music things, I don’t know
why. I lied and told him that I’d seen the Statue of Liberty windows at
Barneys.
I didn’t get any good pictures, really, so I just took four rolls of
atmosphere. And Ron Delsener was running, he went crazy at the end
because if you go past 11:00 then it costs $1,000 extra a minute for the
unions.
Afterwards, at that new restaurant on 81st and Columbus, Metropolis,
Dylan came in with his whole family—all his kids and his mother, who was
nice-looking with white hair. She didn’t look Jewish, but everybody else
did. I asked Dylan’s manager if Dylan was Christian now or Jewish again,
and he said Dylan’s Orthodox and that’s why he wasn’t doing a show the
next night—that he didn’t work Friday nights unless the money was really
good.
Keith Richards was supposed to come to the concert, but Patti Hansen
was having their baby. Oh, also, the road manager liked Ric Ocasek’s
girlfriend Paulina’s mother and so she was giving him her address. He was
Indian. Paulina said, “We’ve got to get my mother laid before she has to
leave New York.”
Friday, July 18, 1986
Grace was so good on the Today Show that I should call and tell her.
This is the day I lost my camera somewhere. And the roll that was in the
camera was the magic roll—the one of Dylan with his whole family, the
kids and the mother. All the other rolls were just at the concert and things.
Vincent had set up dinner with Ric Ocasek and his girlfriend Paulina,
and his manager who’s Dylan’s manager, Elliot Roberts, and his wife or
girlfriend, Sylvia, a blonde who represents a Japanese designer. After work
Rupert drove me uptown.
Called PH, picked her up at 8:30, went over to Caffe Roma. And
Paulina’s mother didn’t come because she went out with the Indian road
manager. Ric won’t be in the same picture with Paulina because he’s still
married.
Ric asked if we wanted to go down to Electric Lady, the recording
studio on 8th Street. And we walked down Fifth Avenue, and it started to
rain and everybody was first recognizing Ric- he’s 6’4”—and then me, so
their minds were blown, and we did autographs and this is when I realized
that my camera was gone. Listened to Ric’s album and now I finally
understand how they just make your voice up. It’s twenty-four tracks.
He played the album and you could hear every little thing, and you
really hear what lots of studio time and work can do for a record although I
don’t know what it all means—you’re not making it a better song, just more
commercial, I guess, or … But every little thing is so clear. Ric said he’s
been renting the basement there for two years and you know how much it
costs to rent studio time! He said he’s spent millions. Called the Caffe
Roma to see if my camera was there, I was in that lost-something mood
(phone $.50).
Saturday, July 19, 1986
Went to Dr. Burke’s (cab $5) and the chubby little girl, Diana Balton, who
used to work at Interview was there having a facial, and she now works for
Elle, she had on pink shoes and a tight-fitting dress and she’s turning
attractive. She said that after she gave Interview her notice Time cancelled
the job they’d offered her and she was too embarrassed to tell us, so she just
left anyway and then she got a job at Elle. So had those collagen treatments
and then my face was bleeding and red.
Sunday, July 20, 1986
I had to take the dogs out and they pooped on the sidewalk at the corner,
and then I picked it up but on my way back a few minutes later, the people
inside the store had already washed down the sidewalk, I guess they saw
from inside. So I was embarrassed. Ran into the doctor and his family who
live next door. And they had a wheelchair with a cake in it and they said
that the daughter was getting married at 4:00. And the cake looked
beautiful. It’d been made three days before out of marzipan so it was
turning yellow, but it was great. I got a picture for the Party book.
Tuesday, July 22, 1986
I’ve been watching this stuff on Fergie and I wonder why doesn’t the Queen
Mother get married again. This English journalist was so mean to Fred. We
read her article and she used four words I’d never seen before in my life to
describe him and Sam had to get a dictionary and they all came out to mean
“slave.” One was “a beautiful amanuensis.” But she was nice to me, she
didn’t put any of the dumb things I said in.
Paige came in and talked to me, so I guess she’s finally not mad at me.
You know all these Wall Street businessmen types are always crazy about
Paige because they think she can make their lives more glamorous, which
they’re right about—she could. But she’s never interested in them —she
only likes the young artist types. The drug addicts.
And I want to put (laughs) Ann Lambton on the cover of Interview.
Everyone just screams at me when I say so, but I really do. I think she’s
going to be a big star and she’s really interesting, so we’d have the first big
interview with her.
Went to the premiere of Heartburn and when we got there the lady said,
“Will you step over to the right for photos?” And I did and not one person
(laughs) took a picture. Except Ron Galella, because it was too odd not to
so he was being nice.
The good scene in the movie was Jack singing “My Boy Bill.” He’s just
magic, you really want to fall in love with him, even though he’s old. He’s
just got it. And the other night when I saw Carl Bernstein I asked him about
the movie and he said, “I made them change it all.” But he still comes out a
stinker.
Then we went to Metropolis to the party. Mike Nichols introduced me to
Nora Ephron and she did the early article on Edie for—what would it have
been for? The Herald Tribune, maybe? She was looking off into the clouds,
she didn’t want to talk. She looks the same, I was surprised at how good she
looks. I had three desserts. Wilfredo dropped me (cab $6).
Wednesday, July 23, 1986
Oh, and it seems like Paige is her same old self because she just got the new
Polaroid camera with all the different lenses and she’s excited again. I never
did really know what was wrong.
Our phone lights were broken so I picked up a line by mistake and
Brigid was talking to her mother on it and it was so sad. I just had to listen.
Her mother was talking about pulling her wig off her head and the bumps
on her head. Here she took care of this man all her life and the second he
dies, she gets cancer. She never had a chance to then go out and have fun.
Then Rupert drove us over to 14th and Eighth where the Odeon guy,
Keith McNally, is opening Nell’s with Nell Campbell from The Rocky
Horror Picture Show as the hostess. And he wanted our opinions on the
food, and if he should charge $15 or $5 to get in. It’s a disco downstairs and
upstairs quiet and no noise. I said the downtown people would resent the
charge and that it’d just turn into a disco, not anything higher, it wouldn’t be
a private club or anything. The downstairs looked like a real firetrap.
Thursday, July 24, 1986
The Robert Miller Gallery and the Pace-MacGill both want to do a show of
my stitched-together photographs in October. I think Fred wants Miller. But
I’m having a Piss painting show in October at Larry Gagosian’s great new
gallery in the Sandro Chia building on 23rd Street, and there’s also a Dia
show in October and I think having so much going on at once is too put-
downable, so maybe the photography show should be later.
Anthony d’Offay came by with his wife and if they’re so rich, I don’t
know why she’s missing a tooth. Their seventeen-year-old son sent me a
letter that was simple and so adoring and it shows what you can say with a
letter, it was so effective. He mentions Billy Boy, though, so I don’t know if
he has a problem.
I was supposed to be picked up by limo for Elliott Erwitt’s photo for
Travel and Leisure. They decided they wanted Grace, too, so then it became
Waiting for Grace.
The kids got me a cab and we went up to Erwitt’s apartment on Central
Park West because he had called and said the light was going, not to wait
for Grace. Grace lives down by the Anvil. She arrived and even if she is the
latest person in the world, she’s sweet, and she was fun. She thinks we
should become a couple and that she could make me happy. Can you
imagine her cocaine friends running through my house? She still can’t get
over Dolph dumping her and she said he’s not going to make it without her,
and I think she’s right, he should’ve gotten more out of her before dumping
her. She says he goes around the swimming pools in his little shorts and the
girls go crazy. And she was complaining because Jean-Paul Goude doesn’t
even see their kid who’s five or six now. Grace felt he needed a father
figure, though, so she (laughs) found a fairy to live in.
Monday, July 28, 1986
I cabbed up to Peter Marino’s birthday party for his dog which was unreal
($5). And a Daily News guy was there covering it, so we’ll see the angle he
takes. There were two dishes that said “Archie” and “Amos” but I hadn’t
brought them, I just wanted to take photos for the Party book. Peter’s wife,
Jane Trapnell, does the costumes on Kate & Allie, the TV show, so Jane
Curtin had her dog there. Walked around Peter’s office which is really big,
he has building models and fabric samples all over the place and he must
have about forty people working for him. And Jed’s decorating business is
doing good, too—he’s billing millions.
Tuesday, July 29, 1986
Joan Quinn called. She said, “When are you going to do my drawing and
portrait?” and I said, “What do you mean?” And she said, “Well, you
promised me and I’ve been the West Coast editor of Interview for seven
years now.” And I said, “Aren’t you the West Coast editor because you’re
social climbing? And aren’t you getting paid?” And she said that I told her
in the Polo Lounge at the beginning when she first started that I would do
her portrait. And I just would never mean that. Maybe I made some joke
about it when she was wangling all these free portraits out of other artists,
but I never said anything serious. So then I just told her point-blank that I
wasn’t going to. I mean, with art especially I always keep my word and I
remember when I say things. And then I called Gael and Gael said, “Listen,
I don’t want to get involved.” So that really upset me. And I don’t know
whether I get sick because I get mad, or get mad because I get sick.
And then this kid drops off fifty invitations to this soap opera party at
Area that say “Andy Warhol invites you …” and I just got furious. I mean,
he’d called once and asked if he could use my name along with a whole
bunch of other names, so I said yes just to help Area out, and here I’m the
only name! And I don’t do that for anybody, so why should I do it for this
kid I don’t even know?
Then I had to go to Sue Etkin’s loft for the Curiosity Killed the Cat
video that Vincent and Don Munroe were shooting, and they had rented a
half-block van. The group is staying at the Chelsea and loving it. They were
such cute, fresh-looking kids.
Then cabbed to Mr. Chow’s (cab $8) for a dinner with Gael and Paige
and Steven Greenberg—he’d invited us. And he had this big bruiser Irish
guy, Bob Mulane, there from Bally Casino in Las Vegas and he said he
collected autographs, like Mini Ha-Ha’s and then he said he had Patrick
Henry’s, and he said the quotation, “I regret I have but one life to give for
my country,” and after he finished, Stuart said, “I have to tell you, that was
Nathan Hale.” So I (laughs) knew right then it was going badly. I could
have it backwards, maybe it was the other guy and it was “Give me liberty
or give me death,” but anyway it was Nathan Hale when it should’ve been
Patrick Henry or vice versa. I don’t know. Stuart knew. And we were
downstairs instead of upstairs and the noise was so loud, and I started to
feel sick. And I really knew it had gone down wrong when I offered to pay
and Steven Greenberg didn’t stop me (dinner $300).
Thursday, July 31, 1986
Was picked up by Stuart Pivar. We went to the Robert Miller Gallery which
is where the old Andrew Crispo Gallery used to be. They said if I let them
have the show of my sewn photos there they’d give me extra space. Steve
Aronson was there doing a story for Vanity Fair on the gallery, and he’d
also just finished an article on Stuart for Architectural Digest. And Stuart
for weeks had been playing it so cool, telling me how he didn’t really want
the publicity, how he wanted to stay “low profile,” how he just wanted to be
a “private person,” but then when he was talking to Steve you could see he
wanted it desperately.
Anyway, the photography show they had there was so interesting and I’d
forgotten (laughs) you can steal ideas. I liked the ones where Bruce Weber
had the dyed colors—blue, pink … I guess it’s like they used to do with
sepia. And superimpositions are coming back. Paige is using that new
Polaroid like crazy, the flashes are starting to bother my eyes.
I didn’t send Liza a note or anything when her father died on Friday. I
thought it’d fade away and I could say I didn’t know about it, but they’re
making a big thing, so I’ll have to write something, but what? Maybe do
another picture of him. But I’ve already done so many.
And then I noticed the weird thing Stuart does with his hands—he
exercises each finger like the piano players do. Like the tendon in the
middle fingers he says goes all the way to the back. And he had me feel his
fingers, he’s been doing it about four months, and they feel like claws. I
couldn’t even move them.
The Pace-MacGill guy came by, and it’s so weird being wanted by two
galleries at once, that’s never happened like this before, and they’re both
offering the same things, and it’s like having two boyfriends or girlfriends
after you. What do you do?
Saturday, August 2, 1986
Wilfredo had gotten tickets for Prince, and so cabbed over to Madison
Square Garden ($3). We passed Debbie Harry and Stephen Sprouse who
were there, and we sat down just as Prince jumped out naked, or almost,
and it’s the greatest concert I’ve ever seen there, just so much energy and
excitement. I saw Ron Delsener and he invited us to the party for Prince at
the Palladium. Prince left in a limo the second the show was over.
We went into the Mike Todd Room and it was just almost empty, tables
set up, reserved, and there, in a white coat and pink bellbottoms, like a
Puerto Rican at a prom, all by himself, was Prince. He was just great, that
image of him being weird and always with the bodyguards and everything
was just dispelled, and he came over to each and every person and shook
their hand and said he was so happy they came, and he danced with each
and every girl—all these weird girls in sixties dresses. Literally with every
girl, and he wasn’t even a good dancer. And he remembered names, like he
said, “So glad you came, Wilfredo.” What manners! And Wilfredo was in
heaven. We asked Prince if he would be our December cover and he said
we’d have to talk to his manager and we said that we’d asked the manager
and the manager said to ask him, and so they said they’d work it out. We
were just shaking, it was so exciting. And Billy Idol was there and you
know, seeing these two glamour boys, it’s like boys are the new Hollywood
glamour girls, like Harlow and Marilyn. So weird.
Sunday, August 3, 1986
Turned on TV and saw Jimmy Swaggart preaching and he had a huge
auditorium of people, bigger than Prince.
Went to church and it was just organ music, and then went to 26th Street
to the flea market and while I was there I verified a fake—that a fake was a
fake. It was a portrait of me, actually a good copy. They did a good job,
they just didn’t frame it right and some of the cotton canvas with the white
was showing.
Monday, August 4, 1986
Went to the office. The Hare Krishna kid from Max’s in the sixties stopped
by—the one who was just in Hannah and Her Sisters. He’d been to
Gimbel’s which is going out of business and he said it’s such a shame to see
a store that’s such a tradition go out of business, that this great name was
going down. But it’s just a name. So what. And here’s this Hare Krishna
saying it, it was funny. I guess Macy’s will be the only thing happening
over on Herald Square.
I read Cindy Adams’s obituary of Roy Cohn. She said she knew he was
dying at that party at the Palladium when they had to help him up to the
podium and that when she shook his hand his weight fell on her. Fred’s mad
because my name is linked with Roy’s in all his obituaries as one of his
good friends. And Roy’s stuff is going to look just like Rock Hudson’s at
auction. All weird things that you don’t know why they’d be in a house, like
things people gave him. His house in town was always just on the verge of
being a slum, but the one in Greenwich was more decorated, more chintzed-
up.
Wednesday, August 6, 1986
All day people just whispered Happy Birthday, they didn’t say it out loud.
Paige was getting together an advertising dinner for that night, which I was
afraid was just going to be a birthday dinner disguised, so I told her she’d
better have at least four advertisers there or there’d be trouble.
The day got strange when Kenny Scharf called and said that Martin
Burgoyne was with his family in Florida, sick. That what they thought was
the measles wasn’t. And I said that the people we knew who had “it” had
had the best care money can buy, and they were the first to go, so I didn’t
know what to say. And Florida seems like a healthy place to be. Madonna
was in the papers buying books on Columbus Avenue for “a sick friend” so
I guess that was Martin.
Got to Caffe Roma at 8:00 and it was Stephen Sprouse and Debbie
Harry and Chris Stein who looked handsome, and Debbie had to leave early
to go work on her new record. And there was a Polaroid guy there, and I
finally told him that if Polaroid didn’t advertise at this point, I was never
going to use their name again in my life, and he said, “Oh don’t say that,
don’t let it mean we can’t be friends.” And he gave me something he said
was very meaningful to him (laughs)—it was a Polaroid. Of a sunset.
Tama’s going to be rooming with Paige when she comes up from
Princeton University on weekends, she’s going to be “in residence” down
there. We bought the rights to all of Tama’s stories in Slaves of New York
about living with Ronnie—I mean, with “Stash,” and Vincent is looking for
financing to make it into a feature movie.
Friday, August 8, 1986
Just like old times because Benjamin picked me up. We stopped in at E.A.T.
and saw our favorite girl that gives us free stuff. Isa. She used to work in a
commune in the sixties, so (laughs) I think that’s why she gives us so much
extra food, really dishes it out. Tipped her (food $35). Benjamin and I
talked about the jewelry business and it was fun.
Sunday, August 10, 1986
At the flea market I ran into Dolly Fox’s mother, who’s a Miss America
from the fifties. And I also ran into Little Nell buying stuff to furnish her
new club with.
Tuesday, August 12, 1986
Kent Klineman was around. He brought a forty-page contract for me to sign
about the John Wayne thing. He’s there saying, “I don’t like the color. What
color will the lips be?” And I mean, it’s a blue face! What difference does
the color of the lips make when it’s a blue face? I mean, he’s ridiculous.
Wednesday, August 13, 1986
Went out and the construction workers whistled so I gave them Interviews.
And I saw myself in a store window and I do stand out like a sore thumb on
the street.
Beauregard from Details came by and left a new issue, they’re going
national.
Went to see Stand by Me at the Coronet or Baronet. These four little kids
and there’s the Fat kid, and the Brilliant kid and the Crazy kid. The only
disappointing thing was that the kid who’s a writer they show writing about
it later in life, and this really cute little kid has turned into Richard
Dreyfuss! It should’ve been Richard Gere. Then I would’ve been happy.
Thursday, August 14, 1986
I originally stopped eating meat to see if I was allergic and I wasn’t, but
now I just don’t eat it much because I didn’t miss it.
Candy Pratts came by the office, she was really upset about Way Bandy,
she’d been with him the week before and said he looked great. There’s a
rumor that he drank Clorox to commit suicide. But I saw him once on TV
talking about he always washed his food in Clorox, so do you think that’s
how the rumor got started?
Friday, August 15, 1986
Read the weekend section of The New York Times which had really
interesting art stuff in it, about a kid who draws dollar bills and pays for
meals with it, then gets change.
Saturday, August 16, 1986
Went to dinner with Wilfredo and Len and Beauregard at Barocco ($165)
and then we walked up from Church Street to a new place called Saturday’s
that’s called something else during the week. We got there and it was all
beautiful straight models, dressed to the hilt, accessorized with jewelry and
T-shirts torn just the right way, like Weber photographs, and they all look
like they just fell out of a magazine. And the right age, like twenty-eight to
thirty. They parked their motorcycles out front. And beautiful girls, too.
This place overflowed onto the sidewalk, it was so chic. I could’ve stayed
there longer but we left at 2:30 (drinks $40).
Sunday, August 17, 1986
My nephew’s in town, and he’s graduated from the University of Pittsburgh,
and he wants a job setting up our office and Interview’s with computers.
Donald. He has a friend who’ll advise us on the hardware and he’ll advise
on the software, the applications. I had him talk to Gael, call her in the
country. He’d probably do a good job. He’ll probably like one of those
Interview girls. He’s a good catch—he’s cute and smart. If he works for us,
he’ll have to change his name to Warhol—I couldn’t take a “Warhola”
running around the office. Oh, and Beauregard told me that Details is
running a thing on people’s real names. Like Annie Flanders was just
something like Schwartz. It really worked for her. And Beauregard’s real
name was Billy Stretch.
Went to the Cooper-Hewitt Hollywood show and there were so many
people there looking at movie-star stuff. I can’t believe there’s not a movie
museum anyplace. They had a Marlon there, but somehow the placard had
come off so I don’t know who had loaned it.
Monday, August 18, 1986
The day started with Jean Michel calling from Josie’s, she’s the South
African Calvin Klein model. He’s not in a gallery now. He left Mary Boone
and they’re both glad. He wants to be with Leo, but I don’t think Leo’s
taking anyone on. Jean Michel would just like to have one show there,
though, even though he knows Leo won’t sell anything.
Tuesday, August 19, 1986
I got Wilfredo invited to the Tama Janowitz dinner that everybody wanted
to go to, but then he said he was going to see the guy who plays the harp at
Radio City Music Hall. I couldn’t believe that. He said he’d come after
dinner.
Sam picked me up. I was working on my Wig painting. Jumped in a cab
and went to 73rd and First Avenue to Petaluma for Alan Rish’s dinner for
Tama, and it was a really great crowd. Alan Rish finally gave a really great
party. Paul Morrissey was being funny, he knows I’ve hated David
Weisman ever since Ciao Manhattan so he brought him over and said to
me, “Andy, may I present David Weisman,” and I just—I couldn’t do it. I
couldn’t let bygones be bygones. I looked away from him, I didn’t want to
do it. Weisman’s now a producer on Ironweed, Jack Nicolson’s going to
star. Paul Shaffer came over and said why didn’t we work on a TV special
together, produce it. I told him he could be the new Ed Sullivan and he
liked that. The party began when Dianne Brill arrived with her tits and a big
better-looking version of her ex, Rudolf, and the Savitt girl had a not-as-
attractive version of Rudolf with her. It was the crème de la party scene.
Patrick McMullan and I talked, he said he’s really getting into girls now.
They put me with Tama at her publisher’s table, Crown. Which is also
our publisher for the Party book, I guess, but nobody said anything to me
like that they knew about it. It was a wild party, lots of table-hopping, and
Tama had her Texas millionaire boyfriend there. Paul Morrissey’s acting
discovery from Mixed Blood, little Rodney Harvey, was there, and René
Ricard and Susan Blond and her husband. Anita Sarko, and Michael Musto
wearing a slave costume. Billy Norwich from the Daily News was there and
Lou Reed’s wife, Sylvia. And Steve Aronson with Kathy Johnson. So it was
fun. Tama left, I guess she went home to fuck her boyfriend. Some people
were going down to a party at Revolution. Sam walked me home and we
bought the Enquirer and a Dove Bar at the Food Emporium. Got home and
PH called to find out if I saw anyone near her gold Fiorucci bag—it got
stolen at the party and her camera and keys were in it.
Monday, August 25, 1986
Martin Burgoyne called and he asked me to do a drawing of him for a
benefit to help pay his hospital bills.
Gael brought me the Don Johnson Miami/Las Vegas issue which had
just come in. It looks sort of exciting, and I told her that. Then Fred told me
to be sure to tell that to all the Interview kids, so as I saw them, I did. I even
told Robert Becker I liked the art part, which I actually did for the first time
—it had young stuff in it, the clubs and things. Oh, and the best quote in the
issue was John Sex’s—that the Fontainebleau hotel made a big impression
on him when he was little so he’s been trying to wear the lobby ever since.
Tuesday, August 26, 1986
Martin Burgoyne called and said he’d come over with a photograph of him
and Madonna that I could use for my drawing, but I said he should rest and
save his energy, that I’d have it picked up for him.
Thursday, August 28, 1986
Linda Stein cancelled my tickets to see Madonna in the David Rabe play.
Goose and TomTom. She said her ex-husband Seymour said I was “press”
and wouldn’t let me come. They’re all alike, those record people, so she’s
on my shit list now. Martin and Keith are going.
Fred’s clipping out all the pictures of this Chambers kid who killed the
girl in the park, I don’t know why. And he said he’s rehiring Robyn Geddes!
It’s like hiring Brigid, it’ll be another zombie. I mean, if he was really
recovered from his problems (laughs) he wouldn’t want to work for us
anyway, right? Fred said Robyn was “the best worker” he ever had.
And Paige was upset because Fred criticized her about this thing she
does during lunches when she gets nervous—she sort of leafs through the
magazine—and she said that was her style of selling and if he was going to
criticize it, that in that case she just wouldn’t do lunches anymore. She said
not to tell Fred she was upset, but I did call Fred and reminded him that she
sells more ads than anybody, and he said that he hadn’t said it in a bad way.
Nick Rhodes called from London the other day and said they had a girl.
I think he was disappointed. They’re coming here in September.
People from Denmark talked to Fred and want me to do a Hans
Christian Andersen portfolio.
Saturday, August 30, 1986
Martin called me in the morning and he wanted to give me his ticket to
Madonna’s play. He’d already seen it and was too tired to sit through it
again, but he said he’d meet me afterwards and take me to the party at
Sardi’s. Worked till 7:00. Went to the Mitzi Newhouse Theater (cab $6).
The best thing about the play was the costumes which were done by
Kevin Dornan who was once the fashion editor at Interview, our first.
Madonna changes outfits all the time, from one beautiful one to another
one. And Sean Penn wore a gun holster and fuschia socks and shoes. The
play was like a Charles Ludlam, abstract. Madonna was good when she
wasn’t trying to be Judy Holliday or Marilyn. She chewed gum through the
whole two hours and I did, too. She was blowing bubbles and everything.
They didn’t do any curtain calls. Liza was there and I went over and said
hello, and after reading in the Enquirer that she weighed 200 pounds, she
wasn’t fat at all, really. Marc Balet was there and I got mad at Kevin
because here he’d gotten Marc two tickets and hadn’t offered me one.
After the play Martin met me backstage and there was a big candy
chocolate leg there from Krõn and everybody was eating it, and Martin was,
too. And it’s so sad, he has sores all over his face, but it was kind of great to
see Madonna eating the leg, too, and not caring that she might catch
something. Martin would bite and then Madonna would bite. I like Martin,
he’s sweet.
We went in Madonna and Sean’s limo to Sardi’s. The big bodyguards
were with them and they said to the photographers, “If you take one picture
we’ll kill you.” And there was Ron Galella and I felt bad, but what could I
do?
Warren Beatty came over and said, “Hi, how are ya?” He looks old, he
doesn’t look good, but I think he looks unattractive on purpose, because if
he just did a few things he could be a knockout again.
At 2:00 I left and went to Broadway myself and got a cab, and none of
the photographers cared because I was alone (cab $6).
Sunday, August 31, 1986
It was a weekend of illness. It was Martin, and that rabbit’s foot that
Stephen Sprouse gave me last Christmas—when I picked it up it just
disintegrated. I’d left Martin at the party, he was having fun, even still at
2:00. The dogs weren’t feeling well. Jed was in London, I guess, and they
miss their weekend vacations.
Tuesday, September 2, 1986
Fred turned down the big licensing deal, it was kind of a relief. He said so,
too. He said he couldn’t put all that time in.
Wednesday, September 3, 1986
The morning started off with the bad news that our Ric Ocasek video was
cancelled after Vincent had worked for a week scouting locations.
Stephen Sprouse came and brought me the Debbie album he did the
cover for and it looks great, clever, he really is a good art director, he knows
how to use his handwriting and everything. Ric Ocasek came by, he felt
guilty.
Robyn came by, and Fred got mad at me for not wanting him to work
there again. Fred says Robyn’s a changed person, but there’s so much action
in New York, I don’t know if he’s doing a smart thing to come back. Now
he knows how to silkscreen. Then my nephew who knows the software
came and he was waiting for the other kid who knows hardware, and they
were going to talk to Gael. His friend’s name is David Patowsky or
something like that. He’s from Pittsburgh, too. These kids should change
their names before they come to New York.
Yoko called and invited me to the Medea Japanese thing in the park. I
invited Jay and we cabbed up to Yoko’s and the traffic was so bad it took an
hour to get to West 72nd Street (cab $7.50). When we got to the Dakota we
saw the limo was still there, we went upstairs and they were all just leaving,
they’d called and found out it was a “rain or shine” concert, and it was
really raining, I forgot to say that.
So we went, and we sat in the park and it was the first day I didn’t wear
my double jacket and it was pouring. Sean left. I started chewing gum just
to keep warm. It was a modern version of a Japanese group doing Medea. It
stopped raining. Afterwards we had to go backstage and the Japanese are so
interested in me for some reason. They interviewed me and Yoko. Ran into
a lot of friends I haven’t seen in forty years.
Then got into the limo and went back to Yoko’s and she had store—
bought food, it was like the way we entertain at the office. Sean talked to
us, he was being friendly, but he was bored. But Jay knew the secret of how
you tear a phone book in half—you bake it in the oven until it gets dry and
then you can tear it, and I said, “Well Sean, if you’re bored, why don’t you
learn how to read the phone book. I mean, do you know the last person in
the phone book? Do you know the first person?” So then we started looking
and he called information and asked them for the number of AAAAAAAA
Bar and they would say, “The AAAAAAAA Bar? Yes, sir.” And then we
called and asked for Richard M. Nixon’s number and they said, “Wait a
minute,” and then there was a click like they were tracing us and Sean got
scared and hung up, and then I scared him by telling him that it wasn’t
really hung up, even when you hang it up. And then Sam— Yoko’s Sam—
called the White House and a recording said if you wanted to talk to
President Reagan to call back between 1:00 and 5:00 in the afternoon. And
then we dialed F—U-C-K-Y-O-U and L-O-V-E-Y-O-U to see what
happened, so we had so much fun.
Thursday, September 4, 1986
A lady came to pick up her portrait and I noticed a scratch on it and I’m
standing in front of the scratch trying to hide it when Rupert walks in and
makes a big speech about it. About the scratch. One of those days.
Worked till 8:00. Took Wilfredo and Sam with me to dinner at
Castellano with Philip Johnson and David Whitney. David wasn’t drinking
so he was reserved. Philip was thrilled with the young kids. We walked
back to Philip and David’s apartment and they invited us up, it was the first
time they were having people, and some kids were coming out of the
building as we were going in and they yelled dirty things like, “You’re
going up to fuck.”
It was great up there, my Cow wallpaper in the bathroom. And it’s kind
of great, their life, eating at the same restaurant every night. Then we went
downtown to the benefit for Martin Burgoyne at the Pyramid on Avenue A
(cab $8, admission $30). Martin gave us big kisses and that threw me for a
loop. Stayed five minutes. Madonna had been there and left.
Friday, September 5, 1986
Picked up by Benjamin, forgot he was coming. We took interviews..
Worked all afternoon. Steve Rubell called and said that at 7:45 he was
having people backstage and for something to eat before the MTV awards
which were at the Palladium. No cabs. I kept walking and I had bundles that
filled up my hands. And in the pouring rain with my hands full people were
stopping me for autographs!. So stupid. Dropped my packages off and got a
cab down to the Palladium. They had it all roped off and you needed a
ticket (laughs) to get on the sidewalk (cab $8).
Our seats were in the balcony. Grace Jones was at my table, but of
course she wasn’t there yet. Her manager asked me would I accept her
award for her if she wasn’t there on time and I said, “No!” Grace finally
appeared just seconds before she had to go up, she had a five—foot hat on,
it hit people two feet in either direction.
Went home (cab $6) and read the Tony Zanetta book that said David
Bowie got his ideas from copying Andy Warhol in the beginning, about
getting the media’s attention.
Monday, September 8, 1986
Vincent called and said that the record company wanted us to do the Ric
Ocasek video after all, if we could get it done by the sixteenth.
Couldn’t get a cab. Then these two ladies stopped for me and said, “Get
in the car,” so I did. One said, “I’ll take you anywhere, I’m just a housewife
from out of town.” She said she was looking for a job and I told her to call
Gael. Maybe she could be a driver. They took me to the West Side, and it
was great, they didn’t talk much (newspapers $6).
Wednesday, September 10, 1986
I have a new bodyguard, finally. Agosto’s brother, Tony. He’s going to walk
me in the morning and then help around the office in the afternoon.
Agosto’s upset because I guess he’ll have to be on good behavior, but
they’ll never even see each other.
And Sam’s reading Popism and he asked me who “The Duchess” was.
He didn’t know. He sits next to Brigid at work all day and he didn’t have a
clue it was her.
Susan Pile called from L.A. and she was talking about how Jon Gould is
in the hospital out there.
Friday, September 12, 1986
Paige took the Dolly Parton portrait to be taped for the Today Show, in a
segment on the Neiman—Marcus catalogue.
I’m doing the Gotti cover for Time.
The lawsuit against the Gitano clothes company is going on. They’re the
ones that were making “Interview” clothes, and even came to us wanting to
do a joint ad campaign—that’s how we found out about it. To file papers it
cost $30,000 and we weren’t going to do it if the bond we had to post was
really high, but it was only $10,000, so we did, and then Gitano changed it
to “Innerview.” And they said they were going to use block letters for their
logo, but then they changed it to script letters, so then it really looked like
Interview anyway, Gael said, so we continued suing.
Saturday, September 13, 1986
Walked downtown a little and then cabbed ($5). Sam was already there, he
had to do paperwork for Fred. He showed me his high school equivalency
diploma and so he really did stick with it and get it, that’s good. I worked
on the Gotti drawing.
Left at 8:00 to go to Madison Square Garden to see Elton John (tickets
$40). He came out like an angel in a halo with a red wig, plus a tommy—
hawk wig. And oh God, is he fat. He had on a silver—lamé caftan, but tight
—a skintight caftan—and the audience loved him. People were coming up
to me the whole time for autographs. This big butch guy thanked me for
giving his girlfriend one and then he walked her to the bathroom and she’s
so lucky, it’s so nice to have someone care about you. When they came back
he thanked me again. At 10:00 Elton was still going strong but I had to
leave to go to Indochine to meet Wilfredo.
Monday, September 15, 1986
I think Time probably wants a painting of Gotti but I did a collage because I
think it’ll look more interesting, more abstract. But they probably won’t like
it, they’ll probably say they wanted a canvas.
Gerry Grinberg from North American Watches doesn’t like my design
idea of hanging lots of the same watch faces off of one bracelet. You know,
“multiples,” like my paintings. He says men wouldn’t buy that. They just
want one watch face on a band.
My tuxedo has moth holes in it. Now they’re in that closet, too, but I
don’t want to take the clothes out of there and risk maybe spreading the
larvae around. I’ll have to do a big vacuuming.
Went to a screening at the Coronet of the new Blake Edwards movie.
Behind us was Tony Bennett with his art teacher. Tony said he’s doing a
portrait of Frank Sinatra.
Tuesday, September 16, 1986
Went to the Calvin Klein thing at Bergdorf’s. They had covered the whole
fountain in Grand Army Plaza with a tent and then there was another tent,
too, and it was a fashion show for Calvin’s first one—of—a—kind clothes.
It was really rich. It reminded me of one of Halston’s shows, and so that
was really sad. Calvin’s gone from bluejeans to couture. Fred was there and
Kate Harrington.
Paige walked me home.
Wednesday, September 17, 1986
Charles Rydell was at the office one day last week and he lives in Port
Jervis, New York, and there was a kid also coming in from Port Jervis on
the bus, and they happened to start talking about Bridgehampton and they
talked for about half an hour and then the kid said, “I only know one person
in Bridgehampton—Charles Rydell.” And Charles told him, “But I’m
Charles Rydell.” And the kid looked at him closely and said, “Oh yes, it’s
you, isn’t it.” I mean, this was so abstract. Charles comes in for French
lessons once a week and he brought this kid with him to the office.
And everybody’s talking about the Bass husband, Sid, leaving his wife
for Mercedes Kellogg. And at the Calvin Klein thing I ran into the Daily
News columnist Billy Norwich who said his real name was Billy Goldberg
but that he’s from Norwich, Connecticut, and he said he kept calling
Mercedes in Paris to try to get a comment and she wouldn’t return his calls,
so finally he left a message with the desk that it was Mick Jagger, and she
called him back in five seconds—“Hi, Mick! And he said, “It’s not Mick,
Mercedes—it’s Billy Norwich,” and she said, “You devil, how dare you do
this!” And he said, “You’re talking to the press anyway, so why not give me
a tidbit.” It was “Suzy” who broke the big story. If I were Anne Bass I’d
take a gun and shoot Mercedes. Can you imagine just stealing another
woman’s husband?
Friday, September 19, 1986
You know, I do think I started this whole bluejeans—with—a—tuxedo—
jacket thing because years ago after I wore that to a few big events and was
photographed, all the kids began doing it and they’re still doing it.
Sam and I had a fight, he was mad and not speaking to me. He wants to
be a big shot so he gives anybody who wants to show me portfolios
appointments with me and then I get stuck looking at them and wasting all
this time so Sam can act like he’s very important.
And the MTV deal—Vincent says it’s happening, they’re sending us
contracts this week, we’ll be doing half—hour weekly shows.
Saturday, September 20, 1986
I waited for my new bodyguard Tony but he didn’t show up. He forgot. I
went myself and passed out magazines uptown. A boy picked me up and I
took him into Christie’s with me, his name was O’Riley and he said he’d
written a paper on me in school, but then after being so thrilled he talked
about a “girlfriend” so I was let down, but I didn’t care, he was a nice kid.
Walked all the way to the office. Called Jean Michel and he was going to
a party at Madam Rosa’s, that club downtown, so went there (cab $6) and
it’s a cool place—when somebody famous comes in nobody cares. Then we
left to walk over to Odeon for dinner and there was this “hooker” on the
street and it turned out to be Jane Holzer. She was so fat, I couldn’t believe
it. She said, “We’re shooting a Lou Reed video. I’m in it.” She was in
costume. I hate Lou Reed more and more, I really do, because he’s not
giving us any video work. She was getting $100 for the day and she’d been
working since 9:00. He wasn’t even there, he was doing his part the next
day.
Sunday, September 21, 1986
Kenny Scharf called and said there was a party for his wife Teresa’s
birthday in the park near the rowing bridge you go over to get across the
lake.
Met Stuart and went up there and finally found the party and not too
many people were there, but in a few minutes suddenly everybody arrived
and there were seven birthday cakes. Keith showed up and Alba Clemente
was with her little girl and Maripol was there and she’s going bankrupt,
there’s a sale of her stuff on Tuesday.
Ann Magnuson was there and I like her. Nobody’s talking about her in
the movies yet. I guess they’re waiting to see reactions.
Susan Pile called and said she got a job at Twentieth Century Fox that
starts in October, so she’s leaving Paramount. And the Diary can write itself
on the other news from L.A., which I don’t want to talk about.
[NOTE:Jon Gould died on September 18 at age thirty—three after “an
extended illness.” He was down to seventy pounds and he was blind. He
denied even to close friends that he had AIDS.]
Stephen Sprouse called with good news—he said that he signed a deal
with Andrew Cogan and that I’m responsible because he met him through
me and so he wanted me to be the first to know. Isn’t that great? He’ll have
his own store and a collection.
Monday, September 22, 1986
Tony picked me up and we went to the Liza Minnelli memorial for her
father at MOMA (cab $4). Stood in the back next to Bobby De Niro but I
didn’t recognize him with a ponytail.
Doug Cramer who gave me the job on Love Boat was there and he said
that when I go to L.A. on December third that Shirlee Fonda would give a
party for me, and I don’t know anything about this trip and I have a feeling
it conflicts with something. I guess the whole place there was filled with
movie stars, but they look so different in the morning. Martin Scorsese
made a speech and they showed clips from The Pirate with Judy and Some
Came Running and it was just great.
Read in the papers about the woman who fell nineteen floors down an
elevator shaft, and it turns out she’d come to one of Paige’s advertising
lunches at the office. She worked for Chanel. She was in the elevator with
her husband and another couple and it got stuck and there was nobody
around so she crawled up and she fell. Can you imagine how horrible it was
being in the car and knowing she was falling?
And Sam’s still mad at me, so to teach him a lesson and make him feel
he was missing out on so much glamour by being mad, when I got to the
office I had Wilfredo write in my date book for every night this week: “John
Travolta … Diana Ross … Warren Beatty,” but he did it all in the same
handwriting, he wasn’t clever enough to vary it, so I guess Sam will realize
it’s a fake. Because, see, Sam always checks my book and when he sees I’m
doing something glamorous that night he plays it goody—goody all day so
I’ll invite him.
My nephew Don and his friend David were around, working on the
computer things at Interview. I don’t know if they really know what they’re
doing or not. And then Donald says he’s not sure he wants to go into
business with David, that he’s kind of hard to be with—I’m letting them
stay in that apartment I own downtown on Hanover Square, the one Richard
Weisman said was a good investment to buy when it went co—op.
Tuesday, September 23, 1986
Was picked up by Tony and we went over to the Animal Medical Center to
see the specialist for the dogs. And they have to go back next week for a
blood test. Went back downtown. Bought extra Time magazines ($6). With
my Gotti cover, they picked a nice one for the cover, and it’s one of those
weeks where Time and Newsweek actually have different covers.
Cabbed downtown ($6) and Sam had read my appointment book so he
saw that I was having “dinner with Cher” and he immediately started
talking to me again. I guess he actually does believe I’m seeing John
Travolta and Diana Ross this week, too.
Wednesday, September 24, 1986
I hear Diane Keaton came to the office early one morning at 9:00 or 9:30
because she wanted to see the building. She wouldn’t come for lunch. Who
does she think she is?
Worked till 8:00. Sam stayed on. Fred looked in the book and saw all the
Diana Ross and Cher and Warren stuff and started to tell me that when I
saw Warren to behave myself or something —he thought it was real, too—
and I just cut him off. Sam must have told him about my “big week”—he
still doesn’t know it’s all a joke. I regret doing it now because it’s all going
to turn out to be cruel, because Wilfredo is laughing behind his hand about
it and everybody at the office is in on the joke, watching Sam being nice to
me, waiting to be invited to these dinners, and oh, I’ll just have to tell him
that these dinners were all cancelled at the last minute or something.
Thursday, September 25, 1986
Calvin Klein got married to Kelly in Rome. Got to the office and Sam asked
about my upcoming dinner that night with Warren and Cher and I just said I
couldn’t make it and did he want to go to dinner and a movie and he
accepted that. And nobody better tell him.
The Beverly Hills police detective in charge of the Ronnie Levin case
called Interview looking for PH because he read her Don Johnson interview
where Don talks about knowing Ronnie. So she gave him the names of two
people he should talk to in L.A. to help prove that Ronnie isn’t still alive
somewhere, which is what the “Billionaire Boys Club” kids who’re on trial
for his murder are saying.
Called Keith to get Martin Burgoyne’s number. I said we really wanted
Sean Penn for the cover and Martin offered to talk to him.
Cabbed to 52nd Street to meet Sam to see Shanghai Surprise ($5). I was
the only one awake in the theater but the movie isn’t bad. Madonna was
beautiful, the clothes were great. Sam dropped me (cab $4).
Sunday, September 28, 1986
Paige was going out to Brooklyn to see Christopher O’Riley, the cute
pianist who’s Stuart Pivar’s friend and she didn’t invite me to go, too, so
she must be interested in him.
I’m seeing Lincoln Kirstein’s name in all these Anne Bass articles and
gee, I’d really like to do a good interview with him myself. These old guys
will pop off soon and they’re so interesting. I went over to his house once
on 19th Street. Jamie Wyeth took me.
Monday, September 29, 1986
I asked Sam to get lunch and he sort of refused. He’s starting typing
lessons, we’re paying for it, and he’s taking French, too.
Cabbed to 59th and Park to Nippon ($6). Sam and I talked shop (dinner
$77). Then went to the Baronet (tickets $12). There was no line so we
thought it would be empty inside for Blue Velvet but we got in and it was
packed. And what a good movie, so weird and creepy. A lot of couples
walked out. And Dennis Hopper was finally good. Now he should do
straight roles. He’s handsome, he could get the old Rock Hudson roles.
Isabella Rossellini could’ve been so beautiful without that awful wig. I
can’t believe she could do a movie like that without breaching her Lancôme
contract. Went home, looking out for weirdos.
Watched a Betty Grable movie on TV and the color was so great, she
was such a beauty, and they just can’t color like that now. Great color and
great makeup.
Tuesday, September 30, 1986
Took a few time capsule boxes to the office. They are fun—when you go
through them there’s things you really don’t want to give up. Some day I’ll
sell them for $4,000 or $5,000 apiece. I used to think $100, but now I think
that’s my new price.
I got the paper and there was an item about (laughs) how Lancôme
loved Isabella Rossellini in Blue Velvet so much that they renewed her
contract for another five years.
Thursday, October 1, 1986
Fred called me in the morning really mad, he said how could Paige and
Vincent and I have put an ad for Andy Warhol portraits in the Neiman—
Marcus catalog. He was in Europe or something when we did it and he was
so mad, saying how tacky it was and that we’re the laughingstock of Texas.
I just said life was too short to get so upset about a stupid mistake.
I went to see Bernsohn and he said he’d just bought $2,500 worth of
Charivari clothes and that he was going to fill up his closet with Armani,
and I’m thinking, “God, so this is why he charges so much.”
Invited Sam and Wilfredo to James Brady’s New York Deli party for his
book. Got stuck at the door with Steve Rubell talking at me and spitting in
my face the way he does. Claus von Bulow’s girlfriend Andrea Reynolds
was there. She said she throws a chicken in the pot for Claus because she
believes rich people should cook. She’s so stupid. God. It was a funny
nothing party.
After dinner we went down to the Puck building for the party for the
first issue of Spy magazine (cab $7). Dropped Sam (cab $6). Wilfredo, too.
Home at 12:00, and watched The Tonight Show and all these TV people
have these white white teeth and there’s nothing else that white on the
whole show. It drives me crazy. Can’t they make them more natural?
Thursday, October 2, 1986
Steve Rubell also told me while he was spraying spit all over me that Barry
Diller was giving a big party for Calvin Klein’s new marriage and where
should he have it?
I took Sam to the Whitney Museum party for Keith and Kenny that I
was hosting. Michel Roux of Absolut Vodka was giving it. Keith asked me
what big movie stars I was bringing. He said Nick Rhodes was in town and
I don’t know why Nick hasn’t called me. I know he’s been here a while.
He’s being distant.
Got to the Whitney early, had to do some press. Some museum people
were there but Tom Armstrong wasn’t. Later he said he didn’t come down
because he was “upstairs hanging Sargents.” Another distant person. And
Cornelia was distant, too. And then we went upstairs because it was cooler
there. Jane Holzer came around 8:30 and we walked to Mortimer’s and the
block was roped off for the party.
Peter Allen sang inside but I missed it and later when he asked me if I
heard it and I said no, he turned away. Another distant person. If I run into
Sylvia Miles and she s distant, I’ll know I’m really in trouble. Then at 9:15
we left. Jane and I went to La Reserve at 4 West 49th for the dinner that
Michel Roux was giving for Keith and Kenny, they’ve both done paintings
of the Absolut Vodka bottle. Had fun there.
Jane walked me home. I watched Letterman and I liked the lady admiral
he had on. Oh, and Quentin Crisp was at the Whitney and he looks younger
than ever, just great. He told me that Letterman, when you’re on his show,
it’s like being out with a gay guy—you know how they’re always looking
past you, looking around for somebody better. He said that’s what
Letterman’s like on the air.
And I took my quarter—Valium and went to bed. And I guess I have to
confess to the Diary that I am a Valium addict. I’m addicted. Because I read
in the paper the symptoms and I’ve got them. And starting in December
you’re going to need more signatures to get them, so I’ll have to stock up
now.
Friday, October 3, 1986
Talked to my nephew, Donald. His friend David is doing the social New
York bit and Donald’s more serious. David’s going after the girls at
Interview and not thinking enough about work.
Sunday, October 5, 1986
Stuart couldn’t decide whether to go to the flea market or go give a lecture
in Bridgeport, Connecticut and earn $200 but he decided to go to
Bridgeport because he (laughs) wanted the money so he gave this lecture
and I guess he’s good at it and in Bridgeport he found some garage sales
and got a nature encyclopedia for just $3 and here I paid $75 for a regular
kind and his has all drawings and everything. This was his “trip to the
country.” He never leaves town. Stuart is a real weirdo. Full of knotted
nerves. And he was excited later because a pipe cleaner was coming over.
That’s what he calls the girls who come over for sex.
Got stuck in the Polish Day parade. Nick Rhodes was calling during the
day but I missed the calls. One of the Taylors isn’t in the group anymore but
Nick owns the name so it’s still Duran Duran.
Billy Boy I hear is in town but he hasn’t called me or Chris. And I really
hate him now—his jewelry breaks! Every gingerboy broke! Every one! But
I can’t imagine why he didn’t call. He’s a social climber, so he must be after
somebody better.
Then went to meet that kid named Stephen Bluttal from the Museum of
Modern Art and went to the closing night of the Lily Tomlin play. Had
really good seats. The Campbell’s Soup Can was all through it and the play
seemed a lot like the Philosophy book. She does a bag lady that really
sounded like a bag lady. She has a great body. At the end Jane Wagner came
out and they were crying and kissed, very feminine. There was a party
afterwards but I didn’t go to it.
Bianca and Glenn Dubin broke up. I never understood why they were
together in the first place, what she could get from him. Because she is a
hustler and she really was after Calvin—I saw her just be so after him. But
then marrying Bianca wouldn’t kill gay rumors, and Kelly was a real girl.
But Bianca should’ve gone after someone like Sid Bass. I mean, if
Mercedes Kellogg can get him—she’s just such a dog, that kinky hair….
Tuesday, October 7, 1986
There was a party for Beverly Johnson at Mr. Chow’s. Every person in the
world was there. Beverly Johnson asked me to go sit at Eddie Murphy’s
table but I just couldn’t. There was just one chair and I wouldn’t have
known what to talk about. I’d have to be macho. It’s funny how you haven’t
heard his name in a year, isn’t it? I think people want to see lots of cheap
quickie B movies. The big stars do these few big expensive movies, and
they’re away for a whole year. He’s got the new movie coming out, Golden
Child. Grace Jones arrived late and made an entrance.
Peter Beard was there and looks really good. And his new girlfriend is
nothing like all his other girlfriends, she’s from Afghanistan. And I heard
that Robert Mapplethorpe and Sam Wagstaff are both in the hospital. Paige
dropped me (newspapers $6).
Wednesday, October 8, 1986
Sam’s being nice to me because I haven’t taken him anyplace in a few days.
And Paige told me that now Sam doesn’t speak to her anymore. I don’t
know why he gets that way. Surly. He told me that Paige doesn’t like him.
He wants to be wanted in such a funny way. Instead of working (laughs) he
wants to be wanted. But if he worked, he would be wanted. And Fred is
really tough on Sam. And on everybody. Fred is unbelievable. I can’t
believe how he’s changed. When something’s done wrong, he just says,
“Get out!” Just like that. “Get out!” Just like Mrs. Vreeland.
Steven Greenberg was taking a whole group of us to the Color of Money
Actor’s Studio benefit, and he was picking me up in his limo so I was trying
to lock up and there was a problem so I left Vincent there with it and went
to the Ziegfeld with Steven Greenberg. We walked in right behind Tom
Cruise and Paul Newman, so nobody paid any attention to us. Paige got me
popcorn. Saw Aidan Quinn and Mariel Hemingway and her husband. I sat
with Cornelia who was more like her old friendly self, and Jane Holzer and
Rusty came. And Victor Hugo was there and Ellen Burstyn made a speech
and Paul Newman did. And the movie, I slept through most of it. I just
wasn’t interested in pool, and nothing was explained. And Paul Newman
should’ve had sex with the girl, then at least there could have been
conflicts. You didn’t know why anybody was doing anything and you didn’t
care, but there were funny lines. Everybody “in” was there.
And then I rode down to the party at the Palladium with Halston and
they’d done the place up like a big gambling casino—huge pool—ball
balloons on the ceiling, different colors, it was like walking into Studio 54
in the old days because they really did a big theme number. But it was so
boring. Then Paige insisted on escorting me home. I don’t know why she
gets that way. I’m not a baby—as long as I get a cab, I’m fine.
Monday, October 13, 1986
I got the Enquirer with Sean and Madonna on the cover and it was about
Martin, how he was once Madonna’s roommate and how he now has AIDS.
And then Martin called me, and it must be so horrible to read this article
about yourself where it says you’re dying.
And then I read Steve Aronson’s article in New York magazine on the
Sid Bass and Mercedes Kellogg affair and it was riveting, he really got all
the information. He even had about Mercedes returning Billy Norwich’s
call because she thought it was from Mick Jagger. It was day-by-day how
the romance progressed. I have a funny feeling that Mercedes will never
make it all the way to the altar. The divorce’ll take two years and you can’t
spend all that time in bed. Should we all make bets?
The alarm went off and I’d like to know if they can trigger it off from
where they are, the alarm company.
Tuesday, October 14, 1986
Had a fight with Fred. He’s getting more and more like Diana Vreeland
every day. I say that Interview is a small magazine and he says no no, it’s
not, it’s not. And he won’t let me put my two cents in about it. I tell him,
“Fred, Time is a ‘large magazine.’ They get $75,000 a page. We get $3,000.”
And he said, “No no, we get $3,100.” I mean, what’s the difference?
Paige said there was the opening of Nell’s and that Steven Greenberg
had a date with somebody she introduced him to and that he’d take us all to
Le Bernardin, the expensive fish restaurant in the Equitable building. We
went and it’s so elegant, so grand, and the food is sort of ordinary, but very
expensive. My fish was cooked in sauerkraut, so it was good, just like
eating a hot dog on the corner.
Then we went with Steven to pick up Donna McKechnie who’s back
starring in Chorus Line. Steven knows all these same types of girls in their
late thirties or forties who’re on the prowl. Like Elizabeth Ray and Margaux
Hemingway. Donna McKechnie was giving an interview to Frank Rich, and
she’s actually beautiful, but she’s in a category that you can’t do much with
—forty—four and with a beautiful body, but it’s hard to find another show
to dance in. She was kind of classy in a whorey way, and she had a dress
that was showing her nakedness. She was too grand for me, but she was
sweet.
Then we went down to 14th Street to the opening of Nell’s and that was
really exciting. Rupert Everett came in with a costar of his. And Nell was
sweet, she said I would be the only one allowed to take pictures. But I
didn’t want to move around, really. Bianca was there and Lauren Hutton
and Schnabel and everybody who’d ordinarily be at the Odeon. Paige went
downstairs dancing with Benjamin and Schnabel and Alba Clemente and all
those people. Peter Beard was there with his entourage. They’ll charge $5
admission. I don’t know if those downtown kids will put it down because
they’re so used to freebies. Then we left and I feel funny when Steven takes
us out because although he spends so much money on us, I have the feeling
in the back of my mind that he may be (laughs) a secret cheap person. You
know? I haven’t figured out yet how he thinks. But he is always so
generous to us. He dropped me off. And Steven and Nell both do the same
thing—they carry a hairbrush and pull it out and brush their hair all the
time. I guess Steven Greenberg’s George Washington hair is his fortune, his
trademark.
Wednesday, October 15, 1986
Had a call from Chris Makos. Peter Wise is going off to Europe with Hedy
Klineman to get her known in the galleries, she’s so desperate to be famous
as a painter. And the kid from the air force who was a bartender down in
Florida when Chris went to Key West a few weeks ago, he’s bringing him
up here. The kid is really good-looking, he could be the best of all those
models. Chris, you know, as usual (laughs), sees himself as a young boy in
this kid. His name is Ken.
Walked to work. Stuart called and wanted to be sure we were coming to
the party at Buccellati’s to raise money for his art school. I told Paige I’d
meet her there at 8:00. Her and Wilfredo. Sam had a typing class.
So at 8:00 Paige called and said where was I? And I went to Buccellati’s
(cab $3) and outside I said to Wilfredo, “I’m afraid to go in,” and this man
who was standing nearby (laughs) came over and said, “That’s very
interesting. I am a psychiatrist and I’m staying at the Waldorf if you want to
get in touch with me about this, because I specialize in phobias.” It was just
like a Peter Sellers movie.
So Stuart was there and Paige made a faux pas and told Barbara
Guggenheim about all the musicales Stuart’s been having, and Barbara
didn’t know anything about them. And when Paige realizes she’s made a
faux pas she laughs hysterically.
Thursday, October 16, 1986
Brigid’s really upset because her mother’s really bad, and she finally is
realizing she’ll be an orphan.
Had to leave the office early at 6:30 because it was the night of a
Japanese boat ride party, and it was black tie and I had a black tie with me
but I only had white Reeboks but Fred and I went over anyway.
Rupert came by with finally some good paintings that I’ve done. I could
actually have a good show, 10’ x 36’ Camouflages. So the car picked us up.
I couldn’t close the alarm and I looked like a mess and I just knew it was
one of those things where they treat you like royalty to get you there, but
then when you step off the boat at the end of the ride, they won’t even hand
you a token for the subway, they’ve already “had” you.
Mr. Kuraoka from Nippon was so cute, it was all his food. And Dick
Cavett got Bianca to talk on mike and she took a look at me and said,
“What are you wearing?” I’m telling you, I was really a mess. My buttons
didn’t button, my tie wasn’t straight, the turtleneck was showing through
the white shirt. And Skitch Henderson was there and I told him how much I
missed him on TV and how he really developed that whole format of the
host talking to the bandleader that they still use. And all I could think of
was that big tax problem he’d had.
It lasted till 9:30 and Fred was his old self, charming and nice to
everyone. But at the end he whispered, “Let’s be the first off the boat.” And
sure enough, there was no car for us. They do absolutely everything to get
you there and absolutely nothing to get you home. So we paid a limo ($25)
to take us and Fred dropped me.
Saturday, October 18, 1986
Stuart called and said that he was interested in a platinum flute at Christie’s
that was going at auction, and he was trying to get me interested in the gold
one. I met him and Sam there and looked at it and it would’ve made a good
necklace. Stuart decided he wouldn’t go above $120,000 for the platinum
one. The silver one went for $4,400, and then I started bidding on the gold
one but my last bid was $22,000 and it went for $40,000. The platinum flute
was estimated at $40,000 but the bidding kept going up and up. Stuart kept
his paddle up and I could feel his whole body next to me shaking as if he
was having an orgasm. He was in a panic to see who the other person was
who was bidding, but we looked around and couldn’t figure out where the
other bids were coming from but when the bidding was over it was Stuart’s
flute for $170,000, which with the tax and commission is about $200,000.
Stuart was in shock. Just in shock.
Everybody there thought it was me who’d bought it, not Stuart. People
ran over and started giving me their cards and handing me copies of Flutist
magazine. It was really funny. Then reporters came and asked why I wanted
it, and to some of them I said because it had the World’s Fair emblem on it
so I needed it for my collection of World’s Fair plastic knives and forks, and
to some others I said I was buying it to melt down. Stuart couldn’t even
open his mouth to tell them it was his flute, he was still shaking, so I
dragged him out of there. The other guy bidding turned out to be from New
Hampshire and he looked rich. I told Stuart to invite him to one of his
musical soirées and try to sell him something. The flute had a whole story,
some man willed it to his mistress but then after he died his family couldn’t
believe he’d have a mistress so they held it up for ten years. It’s American.
Boston. Kincaid.
Then Stuart wanted two double martinis and four hot chocolates, so we
went and got them.
Then we went to the Antiques Center to see if we could find another
flute for $2. Stuart’s trying to think of how to pay for this. Then he went
home and I cabbed ($6) downtown. I’d made plans to see Sid and Nancy
with Stephen Sprouse. It was at the 57th Street Playhouse (tickets $18,
popcorn $5). Ann Lambton played herself, the movie was sick, real—
nobody would ever want to be a punk after they saw it.
Sunday, October 19, 1986
Stuart was still in a daze over the $200,000 flute.
Monday, October 20, 1986
Stuart’s flute was on the front page of USA Today but they didn’t use his
name. It just said (laughs): “Record Price Paid for Flute.” And he’s funny,
he pretends he doesn’t want publicity, but then you can see he’s so crushed
when he doesn’t get it. Like that story Steve Aronson wrote, he’s so excited
about it but he still pretends not to be.
John Powers called me from Japan and he’s looking for an Elvis to buy.
There’s one coming up at auction and the reserve is so low. It says “Three
Elvises” but I don’t know if it’s a really big one or just where the images
overlap three times.
Tuesday, October 21, 1986
Diane Von Furstenberg was having a party for her boyfriend, Alain Elkann,
who was married to the Agnelli daughter. He’s French. He’s written four
books, and in France if you’re an intellectual, you don’t have to work, they
just treat you like this big—“intellectual.” Like Loulou de la Falaise’s
husband who’s supposed to be a novelist but I don’t think he’s ever finished
anything. So Diane’s going the Marilyn Monroe route of marrying one
person for the name, and now she’s going with this guy who’ll write books
about her.
Worked. Fred decided to come along. Closed up fast. Went to the
Carlyle, ran into Sue Mengers in the elevator who’d been at the party, she
was with her same husband and she’s thin and I don’t know what she’s
doing. She lives here now. The cake was in the shape of a book. Bob
Colacello was there. I read his article on Bianca in the new Vanity Fair.
She’s back big again, the pictures of her walking with the Salvadorean
children in the fields.
Jean Michel called, back from the Ivory Coast. He said they sell meat
with four million flies on it—they cut off a piece and just sell it with the
flies. He sounded normal, like he was off drugs and missing old times, he
wants to do prints together.
Friday, October 31, 1986
Benjamin was supposed to pick me up but he never showed. I wandered
around. This was the day of the surprise birthday party Steven Greenberg
was giving for Paige at Nell’s. For days I’d just been shuffling papers for
Paige’s party, trying to help Tama do a good guest list, and I couldn’t get it
together, and then Gael took over and did it all really fast. Worked all
afternoon. I went home and then Paige picked me up, and as far as she
knew, we were just going to a blind—date dinner at Nell’s.
So we get to Nell’s and Paige still doesn’t suspect anything and then
right at the last second, right outside at the door Glenn O’Brien’s wife
Barbara was getting out of a cab and said, “Hi, Paige, we’re here for your
surprise party.” We couldn’t believe it, but Paige was distracted enough so it
didn’t really sink in and I think she actually was really shocked when she
walked into the club and everybody screamed, “Surprise!”
Gael did a really great job pulling it all together and the party was so
nice. I sat right where I did on the opening night—right by the front door—
and I didn’t move once. The party took up the whole street—level floor, and
then they let the public in at 10:00 but they sent them downstairs. And it’s
the new look in restaurants—going for the sort of phony rich look. Dark
with stuffed furniture.
And let’s see, Thomas Ammann was there and Tama, and Nick Love
from L.A. who’s staying at Fred’s. And Larissa was there, and Jay, and
Wilfredo, and Gina and Peter Koper. And the new kid who works for
Interview who was at Paramount, Kevin Sessums.
Halloween has really turned into a big holiday. It just used to be for kids
but now it’s the whole city. All the drag queens came in and I didn’t
recognize Kenny Scharf, I didn’t at all. I finally recognized Joey Arias. I
figured him out. And Jean Michel came late with his face wrapped in tin
foil and nobody knew who he was (laughs)—Paige was even talking to him
because she didn’t know.
Let’s see who else was there. Calvin came with Kelly and Bianca and
Steve Rubell came and Doug Henley. And Jimmy Buffett’s wife. It was a
lot of great people. I wanted Martin Burgoyne to come, but he said he had
cancer all through his body, so that was … it was sad.
Sunday, November 2, 1986
Richard Turley called to tell me that Monique Van Vooren was on TV in a
Tarzan movie. So I turned it on and it was just incredible—there she was
with dark hair and a different nose and so ugly, and it was with Lex Barker.
In the end she was shot in the belly.
Ran into Janet Sartin on Park Avenue when I was throwing out bread for
the pigeons in the middle of the avenue. She said she did it, too.
Monday, November 3, 1986
Went over to the West Side to Dr. Li’s (cab $5, newspapers $6). It was a
really nice day. Kind of busy at the office. Sam was depressed, what else is
new. He had big circles under his eyes, it seemed like he spent the night out.
Vincent had been up till 6 A.M. working on a video.
The Dia Foundation was having my opening. And there was the sixties
party that Jane Holzer was having at the Ritz, Fred said we had to go to
that. Doc Cox had called in the afternoon and wanted a ticket to the Ritz
thing. I was surprised he wouldn’t pay because it was a benefit for displaced
or disabled kids.
So after the Dia Foundation thing we went to Jane’s party and Jane
didn’t show the whole time we were there. We were walking out and
Stephen Sprouse was there and he’s really broke. He may be getting kicked
out of his apartment. The deal he was going to sign got complicated.
Everything always sounds so great until you start talking to the lawyers.
Wednesday, November 5, 1986
Stuart picked me up and we went over to Christie’s and they (laughs)
wouldn’t give him a paddle because he hadn’t paid for his flute yet. I
bought Stuart lunch at Sotheby’s ($3.15). He had a bologna sandwich and it
looked so good. Remember sandwiches like that? With mustard. And the
slices were so thick. Like 3/8”. The girl serving coughed in my tea, but I
figured that since the tea was so hot, it’d be sterilized.
Then Stuart’s driver drove me down to the office and he’s great, the
Brazilian bandleader, he got me there really fast.
It was pouring rain. Sam was going to go with me on the Forbes yacht
but he didn’t bring a jacket and tie like I’d told him to the day before so I
disinvited him and took Fred who was thrilled to go.
So we went to the boat. This party was to publicize a new line of
underwear. James Brady was a lot of fun, and Susan Mulcahy was there and
Fred was in a skirt—pulling mood. And I talked to Mr. Tisch and his wife
and (laughs) we were standing there saying oh—how—tacky something
was and right at that moment this lady from Texas came over to me and said
that she’d just seen the ad for my portraits (laughs) in the Neiman—Marcus
Christmas gift catalogue. So that cut me down to size and I started to laugh
and Fred gave me a look like, “I hope you’re happy,” but he was laughing,
too. He’s still so mad that I okayed it for their catalogue while he was away
in Europe. So that was really funny.
Thursday, November 6, 1986
This was the night Larry Gagosian was supposed to be giving a pre-opening
dinner for me, I thought, but then Fred sort of told me it was cancelled.
Somehow he didn’t want me at it, I’ll get to that later. So when Paige called
and said there was a business dinner at Chantilly’s which is a good
restaurant on Park and 57th, I said I’d go to that.
Paige picked me up and we got to the restaurant forty minutes late.
Steven Greenberg and Margaux Hemingway were invited and Michael
Gross from the Times and Barbara Hodes who he just got married to, she
used to design for Paraphernalia and she still looks the same as she did in
the sixties. Sonia Rykiel was there, too.
Then Steven wanted to go to Nell’s so we went down there, and we walk
in and I saw Larry Gagosian and then I saw Fred sitting with Faye
Dunaway and Jerry Hall! I’m not kidding! I don’t know how that happened,
if they were there and just coincidentally were sitting with him, but it
seemed like this was the dinner that Larry was supposed to be giving for
me. Fred was mumbling something like that he’d wanted to talk business
with them alone or something. But I do think this dinner was supposed to be
for me and that he’d told me it was cancelled just so I wouldn’t go.
And Gagosian told me, “I got your Rorschach Test for my California
show,” and I said, “Where did you get it?” He said, “From Leo,” and I said,
“Oh, really? Did you buy it?” and he said, “No, it’s consigned.” I said,
“Well you can’t have it.” I got mad and tough. Because it’s just one more
show not to have. And Larry, I don’t know, he’s really weird, he got in
trouble for obscene phone calls and everything. He’s weird.
Friday, November 7, 1986
It was a messy day, raining and everything. Saw a great video on MTV by
the Models, it’s done sixties and it’s like underground movies and there’s an
Edie and a me, and the me looks so cute, he’s in a striped shirt, it’s great. I
don’t know the title of the song.
My opening was happening at Gagosian’s and Stuart sent his car and I
locked up and we went over there and ran into Stellan from Sweden who
has a girlfriend who works on fashion at Interview Marianne. And Yoko
Ono was there. And we saw the show and Stuart was saying, “They’re
masterpieces,” and I don’t know if he was just buttering me up or what.
These are the Piss paintings, the Oxidations. And then these nice older
women were asking me how I’d done them and I didn’t have the heart to
tell them what they really were because their noses were right up against
them. And it was so crowded.
Then went to Nippon with Sam and Wilfredo and Benjamin and Stuart
and Barbara Guggenheim (dinner $280).
Saturday, November 8, 1986
Sam called and said he’d been to four clubs with Benjamin: Rolodex, Beat
the Zombie—something like that—and Save the Robot. Dolly Fox called
and said that we were on for the Demi Moore play that night. Stuart called
and picked me up and we went to a skeleton place on 14th Street, where
they had bones from a one-year-old up to a twenty-six-year-old. Then I
went to the office and worked all afternoon.
Closed up and went to Seventh Avenue and 4th Street (cab $5, tickets
$30) and after the play we went “backstage” which turned out to be
(laughs) outside. I got Demi Moore to invite me out to her wedding on
December 13th to Emilio Estevez, so that’ll be a good time to go out, it’s
the big art time there.
Elizabeth Saltzman had invited me for dinner at Indochine. She was
inviting Barry Tubbs and I was the draw. She’s with Jellybean now, though.
Cabbed to Indochine ($6). Barry Tubbs never came. Elizabeth didn’t pay,
which was odd because she’d invited us (dinner $200). Somebody came in
and told us the whole story of the night before at Nell’s, how Fred had stood
on a table and pulled down his pants in front of the whole restaurant.
Then we went down to Nell’s and there were eight of us (admission $40)
and they got us the table in the back. We were there for a couple of hours
and then I ran out without paying the check at Nell’s. I just felt like it (cab
$10).
Sunday, November 9, 1986
Donald was coming over, my nephew, and he’s going back to Pittsburgh,
giving up his job at the office, and I told him he was giving up a big
opportunity. He never changed his name from Warhola to Warhol, that
should have given me the clue. He just doesn’t like New York, I guess. I
never took him out to anything. I don’t know if that would have made a
difference. I don’t think so, but I don’t know. He said he’s going back to
take care of his mother and father because they’ve been so good to him. I
told him oh sure, who’re you kidding. His father John is the one who
worked for Sears, he just retired.
I called Fred and he was acting grand with me, telling me off. I just
couldn’t take it. I told him he was sounding very grand for somebody who’d
dropped his pants at Nell’s and then when I said that he became a different
person—he didn’t think I knew about that and it stopped him cold.
Watched MTV—the rebroadcast of our Fifteen Minutes show—to see if
it had aged well, and it did still look current, it looked modern. We’ve got to
get the colors brighter, though. I’ve got to work on that. It should look the
way Madonna looks in her “Papa Don’t Preach” video where she’s dancing
like Marilyn or Kim Novak. Those strong colors. Blond hair and orange
lipstick on black.
Monday, November 10, 1986
Iolas came by, he’s having a prostate operation and so my Last Supper show
is being changed to December 15, which I’d hoped would be postponed
even more, to March. Talked to Michel Roux about doing paintings of the
bottles for his new mineral waters.
It was the night of the Barneys fashion show benefit for AIDS in the
women’s shop. Wilfredo was going and at first Sam said he didn’t want to
go but then when he heard Madonna was going to be there he felt he might.
We went over (cab $8) and we asked if Madonna was there yet and they
said no, but she must have come in some disguise because when Iman came
down the stairs, Madonna swooped in front of her and then all the
photographers swooped after Madonna. The show was good, great jackets.
Good ideas. Everybody was in the show—Joey Arias and John Sex and the
girl with the shape, Dianne Brill, and Teresa Scharf. Madonna had on
Martin Burgoyne’s denim jacket. And then as we were leaving Chris Makos
shoved some nuns at me for a picture and then somebody else started to
take the picture and he screamed at the guy, “It’s my picture, I set it up!”
They were from St. Vincent’s, the benefit was for them.
Howard Read from the Robert Miller Gallery was there and he’d just
been at the auction where Jasper Johns’s painting went for $3.3 million!
Which is $3.6 with tax and commission and stuff. So it’s the highest price
ever paid for a painting of a living artist. And it wasn’t even that great a
painting, there were better ones. It wasn’t a Target or—it was maybe the
Numbers. I had Dollar Bills in this sale and it went for $385,000, and a
Mona Lisa went for $70,000.
Wilfredo and Paige dropped me (cab $6). I got home and watched the
channel 4 news rerun with Sue Simmons talking about me being at Barneys.
God, she’s a beauty. I met her once at some dinner at the Plaza and she was
eating really greasy food, a lot of it.
Wednesday, November 12, 1986
The art auctions were still going on. A Rosenquist went for $2 million. A
drawing of Jasper’s went for $800,000. A drawing! But Rauschenberg’s
drawing went for only $90,000. And I guess David Whitney must be a
multimillionaire, he has so many Jasper Johnses.
Thursday, November 13, 1986
Fred said that Nell is going to be on the cover of Vanity Fair and here we
are with all the wornouts—Cybill Shepherd, Diane Keaton…. People do
like the Cybill Shepherd interview though —they say she’s really honest in
it. I haven’t read it yet.
Friday, November 14, 1986
Julian Schnabel came by with his little girl. We’re talking about me maybe
doing some different image on top of a fake of mine that he bought—one of
those paintings I think Gerard Malanga did. Julian didn’t know it was a fake
when he bought it.
Mr. Murjani called and invited me to dinner and I asked if I could bring
Benjamin and he said why didn’t I bring Paige, too. So Stuart picked us up
and we went to Murjani’s place at U.N. Plaza. And when I walked in I
immediately saw this box with a microphone on top and recognized it right
away because it was the kind Imelda Marcos took on the Forbes boat and
sang with, and then Mr. Murjani started playing it, and he sang “Feelings”
with it. It’s the box that enhances your voice and you pick from a few songs
and then it’s a whole orchestra playing behind you. And he has a really
good voice, it was like that Indian teenage idol from the sixties, Sajid Khan,
or something. and then Stuart did it and it was fun, Stuart can make himself
sound like any Broadway star.
Then Mr. Murjani took us to this place that I guess he goes to regularly
to meet girls. It was on 77th and Second, I think. And at dinner there was
this table of girls next to us and Mr. Murjani and Stuart went over and tried
to pick them up. The girls were in their early twenties, and they were going
on to a party at the Union Club. And Mr. Murjani told Paige that the other
night at the dinner that he’d invited them to, Gael thought it was one of
Paige’s dinners so she said to him, “Well since we’re entertaining you so
lavishly with all these dinners, how about advertising?” I don’t know about
Gael, is she stupid or not? But then, it was memorable, he’ll always
remember it, so that’s good. The food was just awful—spaghetti—it was
uneatable.
Katharine Hamnett was working with Vincent till really late on the video
but then she came to dinner, too, and she was sweet. But the odd thing was,
there was this boy with her who just stood behind her chair and didn’t eat,
and there was an empty chair beside her and everything. Finally I said,
“Well, uh, wouldn’t he like to sit down?” And she said, “What? Oh yes, sit
down.” It was her assistant. He must have been starving.
Then Murjani and Stuart dropped me and Paige off and then they went
to the Union Club to try to get in and find those girls but then they didn’t
get in because it was black tie and they couldn’t remember what the girls
looked like.
Saturday, November 15, 1986
Went to Saks and there was a big crowd for the Swatch event. Keith and I
did our autographing act together.
Stuart picked me up and Michael Jackson was staying across the street
at the Helmsley Palace and we went to a gallery near there to look at
Bouguereaus. Stuart’s going to try to see him this time. The last time he
blew it. Michael Jackson was coming to his apartment at 3:30 but Stuart got
home after 3:30 so he missed him. But now Michael is in town again and
he’s wearing a brown wig and dark glasses, and a white gas mask, so if you
see that coming down the street …
Sunday, November 16, 1986
Bruno called and invited me to lunch. Went to church, then cabbed to Harry
Cipriani’s in the Sherry ($4). The food tastes like it’s done in a microwave,
and I bet it is.
Wilfredo called, he’d been to see The Mission for the third time. Isn’t
that weird? He wanted to be a Jesuit priest once.
Tuesday, November 18, 1986
Stuart was picking me up at my house, so I waited for him inside the door.
And now we have a video camera to see outside and I could see a man
trying to get in the door with keys and everything and it looked just like
Stuart, somehow. It had his attitude. But then it wasn’t Stuart and he was
still trying to use a key to get in. I decided to open the door and see who he
was and so I did and I think he was drunk or something. He asked for the
lady of the house a few times and I kept telling him that I was the lady of
the house. And then I went back inside and the phone rang and it was Stuart
to tell me that there was a man on my doorstep trying to get in and I told
him I knew, and then Stuart came to pick me up again, and I went out to the
car and past the man who was still there and I got into the limo and Stuart
was crying. Literally crying. The tears were streaming down his face. It was
shocking, just absolutely shocking. I said, “It was so odd, I thought he was
you at first.” And Stuart was sobbing, saying what if it were him and how
could I just leave him there? And I said, “Well, I think he’s drunk and what
can I do anyway?” So he said to take him somewhere, put him in a cab and
get him where he was going, but how could you know where he was going?
So I borrowed $20 from Stuart and gave it to a cabdriver to take him where
he was going, but he probably just dumped him in another neighborhood.
But he was well-dressed. Like a Spanish man in cream-colored Spanish
boots and kind of natty. By the way, Michael Jackson never did show up, he
called and cancelled right before he was supposed to be there.
Thursday, November 20, 1986
At the end of work it was pouring so hard. Paige called and said that Steven
Greenberg would take us to Missoni in his car and we got there late, and I
think it’s actually the best time to arrive someplace, really late, after
everybody’s resistance is worn down and they’re tired, and then you hit
them for an ad. It’s like in the fifties when I had to go around and see art
directors looking for jobs. If you went early in the morning you never got
anything, so I’d wait till 12;00, lunchtime, because by then they had
stopped getting calls and they were tired and you had a better chance.
People really do stop calling offices at lunchtime because they assume the
people will be out.
So we went to the Missoni thing and then went to Le Cirque. Gael was
there having dinner with Steven’s friend, Mr. Mulane, the Bally Casino guy.
He’s really nice, he knows everybody.
It was pouring rain. Got home and turned on TV and saw that John Tesh,
our old friend who used to be on the news here, is the new main guy on
Entertainment Tonight with Mary Hart.
Friday, November 21, 1986
Sam just ran out at 5:00 and didn’t arrange for Fred to get home from the
hospital from his five-hour knee operation. He’d gone in at 8:15 that
morning. And when I got home he called and said he’d just gotten home by
himself, that he’d been in the waiting room until noon, and he was kind of
high. He said he thought he’d “joked with” the doctor while he was under
anesthesia, and oh God, I can just imagine what he said. Fred really could
be bad under those circumstances. And I complained a lot to Fred about my
personal life which I shouldn’t do. I should just always say everything’s
cool. He told me that I shouldn’t get involved with these kids’ personal
lives, like Sam’s and Len’s, because it’s none of my business. And he’s
right. I was going to scream at Len for not telling me the truth about Sam
spending the night a few weeks ago at Jill’s boyfriend’s apartment—but
then it’s none of my business. And then I guess Sam got involved with
Victor the other night because Victor called and said, “I have someone you
know very well here …” and I couldn’t imagine, and he said, “The blond
boy who works for you … Sam.” And that stunned me.
Saturday, November 22, 1986
I watched Young Bobby Kennedy, a documentary, in the morning. They put
it on because it was the JFK death anniversary, I guess.
I’m always surprised that one of the Kennedy kids wouldn’t want to
know what really happened, who really killed JFK and Bobby Kennedy.
You’d think Caroline would get interested and say, “I don’t care if I get
killed, I want to know.”
Went to Doyle’s and then to Sotheby’s and got catalogues (cabs $4, $5).
This is right before they closed. And they told me there that I’d just done
very well. The Soup number two went pretty high at $6,600. I forgot we’d
sent Jay to bid on Ladies and Gentlemen, a set of those, and some Flowers.
Jasper’s Numbers set went for $140,000.
There was a dinner at 7:30 at River House and Paige said she’d pick me
up. She arrived and had a basket on her head with flowers on it. It was left
over from the photo session for Tama’s book, A Cannibal in Manhattan,
that they’d done that afternoon at Tavern on the Green. Paige is art-
directing the book, setting up the photos in it. Stuart had told me how
beautiful the “hat” looked, but it was just—ridiculous. She’d had on a silver
outfit, but for the dinner she changed into a black Gaultier but kept the hat
on. The dinner was for Francesco Clemente, it was given by the Angela
Westwater lady who has the Sperone Westwater Gallery, and the first person
whose hand I shake turns out to be Alan Wanzenberg—I didn’t recognize
him right away. And then I realized Jed was right across from me. Then Edit
deAk came over and told Paige and me, “Oh, the two of you should be
married.” A Tama-type line. I made a faux pas, I said to Alba Clemente, “Is
Bianca coming?” I forgot that Bianca had had an affair with Clemente. She
said, “No. She’s not a friend of mine.” And Thomas Ammann said Mary
Boone wants to represent me and that I should think about it. Keith and his
friend Juan were there. And then about thirty-five people were going down
to Nell’s. I didn’t want to go and Paige did so I told her to go ahead but she
insisted on dropping me off—I can just feel all the weird problems starting
again.
When we got to my house, Paige’s flowers had fallen out so she was
going home with an empty basket on her head.
Tuesday, November 25, 1986
The second day of the auctions at Sotheby’s—Renaissance. Was picked up
by Benjamin. Stuart arrived late and looked like Dracula. We lost out on
everything, which was fun—it was all learning and seeing and touching and
feeling, and it didn’t cost a penny. Left there and walked for a while.
Oh, and Stuart told me I’m the only one who talks to all the black guys
who work at the auction houses, asking them what they think of the things,
(laughs)
Went back to the office and worked from 6-9:00 and everybody else was
working late, too. Fred’s walking with a cane. Then invited Paige and
Rupert to Nippon. It’s nice not to have Sam to worry about anymore. Since
I found out he has a secret life and sleeps out a lot, I don’t feel responsible
for him.
Thursday, November 27, 1986
Thanksgiving. The phone rang and it was Wilfredo saying he couldn’t come
with us to feed the poor, that he was going home to New Jersey. Paige
called and said she’d pick me up in ten minutes, but it was half an hour
before she and Tama and Stephen Sprouse arrived.
Victor had called in the meantime and I invited him to feed the poor
with us. I don’t know if he’s on drugs or if now he’s just always paranoid.
So we went to the Church of the Heavenly Rest on Fifth Avenue and
90th, and the good-looking priest had moved to St. Thomas’s, that big chic
church. And it looked overstaffed—like they had one volunteer for every
eater. Everybody had their own waiter. So we went upstairs and there was
this big dykey Irish woman giving the helpers their assignments and she
said, “Are you here for food?” And Victor got offended and that started him
off insulting people in the line, saying, “Just eat fast and fuck off and get
out so we can clean up.” This is in a church! And finally I told him, “Victor,
we’re here because we want to be.” And there were a lot of photographers, I
don’t know if they were from the newspapers or what. So this dykey lady
says to me, “I’m putting you on security, to keep people in order.” And I
said, “I can’t do a thing like that.” And she said, “Well that’s what you’re
going to do.” And I said, “No, I’m not.” So I ignored her and we served the
food, and it’s such a great church, there was food for people to take home,
too, and I was giving everybody a lot. If there’s this many hungry people
there’s really something wrong. A lot of people looked like they just came
for a meal so they wouldn’t be lonely, though. Maybe they even lived on
Park Avenue, you can’t tell.
And at the end it was sick, the councilmen came in and waved their arms
around to show they cared, in case there were people taking pictures.
We left there and Victor dropped me and said he hated Stephen and
Paige and Tama, that they were phonies and balonies, and then later he
called and was saying he knew I was taping him on the phone and so he was
talking “to the people on the other side of the tape recorder,” and I don’t
know if he’s on drugs or if he’s just hallucinating on his own. There’s
something wrong with him.
I saw our Cars video, “Hello Again,” on MTV. They ran it again, and it
still looks really good. I can’t believe it came out of our place. And I can’t
believe nobody else had us to do their videos after that. Oh, and I bought
some magazines. A lot of them ($25). I walked the dogs and Paige called
but I was too cozy to go out to dinner. And then Jean Michel called and he’s
furious at Paige because he finally found out about his father playing the
cannibal in Paige’s pictorial spread for Tama’s book, A Cannibal in
Manhattan, he’d just seen the item on Page Six about it. He said, “What is
she trying to do? Is she after my father?” And he said his father’s writing a
book, and he said (laughs), “He’s not even a drug addict—how can he write
a book? About what?” That’s the first time I ever heard Jean Michel say
something funny. I wonder if that’s his sense of humor. And he didn’t go to
Germany for his big show.
Friday, November 28, 1986
Tony picked me up and we passed out interviews.. Cabbed to the office
($7). Fred was working, waiting for the call from Hamburg from Hans
Mayer saying when he was coming the next day. The German lady came in
with her boyfriend for me to take pictures of for a portrait. And they have a
stuffed gremlin, you know, from the Gremlins Spielberg movie, that they
sleep with and that has to be in the portrait, too. She’s about thirty-six and
he’s about eighteen. The gremlin doesn’t actually look so bad when you see
it, it’s not quite as bad as you’d think.
Fred made a reservation to take them to Nell’s. I think he became a
member. It’s $200 a year, I think, but it hasn’t gone through yet. I’m not
going to join. I think it stinks, joining.
And I don’t call Sam anymore, everything is different now—my eyes
are opened. I guess he was taking drugs when he used to lose things. I don’t
know when it started, maybe he always was. Maybe he would always go
out after he dropped me off. Looking back now, I guess I wasn’t seeing
what I didn’t want to see. Again. Does it ever end? Do you ever get smart?
Saturday, November 29, 1986
Fred called and said we had a lunch with Hans Mayer and the Mercedes-
Benz guy at Harry Cipriani’s bar. And the guy was handsome and lunch was
fun. I think I’ll try (laughs) to get a car and driver out of them, to get the
“feel” for the paintings. I’m painting old Mercedeses for them.
Then Katy Ford and her husband Andre Balazs took me to the Miss
Olympia contest at the Felt Forum, and afterwards we went to Tommy
Tang’s down on Duane Street. It was fun. Richard Johnson of Page Six was
with us and he said that when he was working at the newsroom of the Post
he got a phone call and it was Timothy Hutton saying, “Hello, this is
Timothy Hutton. Did anyone there call me?” And Richard asked around and
everybody said no. And then Timothy Hutton asked, “Well did anyone call
Madonna?” I guess she was with him. You know how these things are, you
get a message with a number. And they said no. And so then he said, “Well
where is it that I’m calling?” And they said, “The New York Post. And since
we’ve got you on the phone, what are you doing with Madonna?” And he
hung up fast.
Sunday, November 30, 1986
Stuart had a car and we went to Christie’s and Stuart had to hide so they
wouldn’t see him— he still hasn’t paid for the flute, they call him every
day. Stuart regrets buying it because, I mean, what would he get for it if he
tried to sell it? And then we went over to the piers to the Antiques and
Collectibles Exposition (tickets $15). And it’s just the same stuff
everywhere. Small and the same, no character. Nothing dramatic. That
Modernism show at the armory last week was great, though. But the guy
wanted $5,000 for a World’s Fair service for eight or twelve! I couldn’t
believe it. I was asking if I could buy the big spoon because I have a big
service and I wore the big spoons out and so he told me the price and I said
in that case could I sell him my set?
Then we went down to the flea market. And we ran into one of the
Interview editors, the new one, Kevin Sessums. He was alone, buying a
picture of a girl with cleavage, which was odd (research materials $210).
Then they dropped me.
Then I heard that Martin died. He died in his new apartment that he got
in the Village with all the money they raised for him at that benefit at the
Pyramid. He bought whatever he wanted. He was such a sweet kid, and so
friendly and generous. With his affection, too, he was generous.
Tuesday, December 2, 1986
Worked with Rupert then the rains came and they went on all day. I asked
Wilfredo to Cornelia’s birthday party so he had to go home and change.
Cornelia’s on the cover of Spy. Worked till 8:30. Talked to Keith. There was
a wake for Martin that I guess Madonna was giving. It was too hard to get
around, though, so I skipped all that. Put black tie on, and Wilfredo picked
me up and we went to Cornelia’s and it was such a horrible party (cab $8).
They treated Wilfredo badly, he had to sit on the side and I was next to Tony
Peck. He said he’d been on a cruise with Dianne Brill and when I just asked
if he fucked her he got upset, I don’t know why.
Wednesday, December 3, 1986
Stuart picked me up after work and we went down to an anatomy class on
East 23rd Street because they were cutting up cadavers and it was
formaldehyde and one was hanging by its head and one was on its back.
The skin was half on and half off and art students were drawing the
muscles. It was just disgusting.
Friday, December 5, 1986
Archie and Amos were sick last night. Jed picked them up and took them to
the doctor’s. Ran into him later, he was with Katy Jones, and he was talking
about what was wrong with the dogs. They’re just really getting old. I told
Jed I’d give him one of the Dog paintings. Life’s so short and a dog’s life is
even shorter—they’ll both be going to heaven soon.
Sunday, December 7, 1986
Stuart said he’d take me to the Liz Taylor night at his art school. Joseph
Papp had rented the building for the night—it was the Creo Society
organizing a benefit for AIDS. Stuart thought it was black tie and then he
was the only one in black tie so he looked like a waiter. There was an hour
of cocktails first at Papp’s place next door in the Public Theater, and then
they put up a plastic sidewalk for the people to get to Stuart’s school, and
they had it done up so beautifully with flowers and food. I told Stuart to just
look at what his dump could really look like. And the first people I saw
were Anne Bass and Peter Martins and Jock Soto. And I stiffened because
I’d eaten so much garlic and I didn’t want to breathe on anybody.
Leonard Bernstein was there, and he cried. He always cries. He’s such a
weirdo. The Hamlisch guy played, and Eileen Farrell was singing and
Marilyn Home and Linda Ronstadt and a guy sang “Ave Maria” in be-bop
or rap or rock and roll and it was like an Ed Sullivan Show. And there were
no speeches because Liz Taylor didn’t show up. A New York Times reporter
asked me what I thought of the performance and I said why didn’t these
stars do this show on Broadway because most of them were out of work—
that since there’s no more Ed Sullivan we don’t ever see them all anymore.
And then Papp came over and he said oh no, these people are much too big
to work on Broadway, that they just got together for this one special night.
And I mean, how can you be “big” if you’re not working.
And then Bernadette Peters was there with her tits hanging out of her
dress and I had already said hello but Stuart wanted to meet her, he insisted,
and so I interrupted her and he started talking and then his violining fingers
started moving all over her and as much happened as she’d let happen. And
Stuart’s standing there with so much tension, he said to her, “Can I give you
a ride?” and she said, “No thanks, darling, I have my own car.”
Monday, December 8,1986
Cab to the West Side to Dr. Li ($4) and did my business there.
Then Paige was having a ballet lunch at the office (cab $5, newspapers
$2). Anne Bass was coming with Peter Martins and Heather Watts and Ulrik
Trojaborg and Bruce Padgett. And they want me to design a curtain and a
poster and I should’ve told them to talk to Fred. I won’t be able to do
anything with that little gold Noguchi lion medallion that Peter Martins
brought to show me—if that’s what they want, they should just have
Noguchi do something. But if they want me to do something it should be
more American.
Oh, and Jock said that after the AIDS thing Sunday night, the reason
they didn’t go to Indochine was because Mercedes Kellogg and Sid Bass go
there so Anne Bass didn’t want to run into them, so they went to Nell’s.
Fred came in with Mary Boone in her fur coat and she wants me to go
with her gallery, I didn’t talk to Fred yet about what they talked about at the
lunch. She sits there and smiles. The Ileana Sonnabend kind of smile.
And Fred after another fight last week that I guess I forgot to talk about,
with Paige and everything, he called me and said that he decided to change,
and so he’s done a ninety-degree turn and he’s trying to be a different
person.
Tuesday, December 9, 1986
Tony picked me up and we went to the chiropractor that Prudential
Insurance wanted me to see. Our office health insurance company. He was
in an old hotel on West 72nd Street on the second floor (cab $4). And the
guy didn’t believe in vitamins, he didn’t believe in anything. He had fifteen
framed things on the wall but I don’t know what they could’ve been for. I
lied about my age on the insurance thing, I said I was born (laughs) in 1949.
And then later Stuart told me it’s a federal offense.
Watched Letterman and God, I hate it when he puts his tongue in his
teeth and tries to be handsome for the camera. It’s like he § doing whaf he
does when he s home looking in the mirror.
Wednesday, December 10, 1986
I thought I was going to have to take photos of Tatum in the morning for the
portrait I’m doing so I lugged all the camera stuff home and everything but
then when I called her it was too difficult for her to schedule, she said why
didn’t we wait until after Aspen. I think the O’Neal family is probably a
really stupid family where the father just happened to make it big in one
movie. Because here’s this little girl who thinks she’s so smart, she just
thinks she’s so intelligent. And when she was a little girl she was advanced,
but …
A portrait guy came to the office in the afternoon and he was one of
those cigar-smoking guys who talks about himself and looks fresh, like he’s
just come out of a gym. About fifty-five. Like what Mike Todd probably
looked like.
The other day Victor sounded so sick I thought he had the magic disease,
but yesterday he sounded fine, totally recovered. I think Elsa Peretti’s
dropping lumps of money into his account. He knows when not to go overly
too far. I guess he’s bored living out in East Hampton. He has a whole
house there for $1,500 a month. He’s being supported in the style to which
he’s accustomed.
Odd people keep telling me how much they love the TV show.
Steven Greenberg had a car and we went to the ballet to see “The
Nutcracker.” I’d sent flowers to Heather and Jock and Ulrick … Paige did it
for me. The little kids in the audience there were all so rich, in just the right
clothes with the right hair and eating the right (laughs) chocolates. They
looked the way Sandy Brant would dress her kids. Jock and Heather were
the leads. Heather’s getting tired-looking, but she’s a really good dancer.
The performance was wonderful. Really, dancing is only good when the
kids are fifteen and you get that skinny frail pinpoint look.
Thursday, December 11, 1986
Tony didn’t pick me up. I wish I could figure out how in his mind he
decides when he’s going to and when he’s not. Walked the streets and it was
a nice vigorous walk. Stopped in at B. Altman’s and it was so jammed for a
change. For once it looked like they were really doing business, and so
many salespeople wanted to help me I had to get out of there.
Corice Arman called about helping me get a French visa. I mean, those
French are so awful, making only the Americans get them and they let
everybody else in the world right in. The office was busy, worked around
there. It began to rain and snow and get really horrible out.
I went to Liza’s husband Mark Gero’s opening at the Weintraub Gallery,
which is just a small gallery. Liza was upstairs getting photographed. Then I
picked up Paige at 8:30 and we went over to Liza’s apartment on East 69th
Street for the party. And there was a big crowd. Halston was there, and
Calvin and Kelly and Steve Rubell. And Bob Colacello was really nice, just
saying how he’d gotten so much training at Interview and how it did so
much for his writing. He had the breath he gets when he drinks, so I guess
he’s drinking again. Like champagne fermenting.
Liza had people from Vogue and Details and Vanity Fair there so she
was doing her best to publicize Mark’s paintings. And the paintings used to
look like sensual vaginas, but now they look like they’re having trouble.
They’re holes with blood around them and they’ve got names like “Death
of a Baby.” It’s like Liza’s life.
And Steve Aronson was there and he was fun, carrying on about how he
didn’t get his Christmas bottle of champagne from Interview in 1977. And
Ethel Scull was there and I said she should start living it up and she said she
was going to, soon. Ethel’s either had too much of a facelift or else she’s
had a stroke, I can’t tell which.
Paige and I talked about our blind-date dinner the night before and
nobody made out except Steven Greenberg. Tama’s date, Amos and
Archie’s vet, Dr. Kritsick, did nothing but complain to her—that his book
didn’t make money, that his pipe had a leak in it—everything. And Paige’s
date overcomplimented her, and mine, well … I think my dates on these
things should be good talkers who can entertain the table because I don’t
talk and Paige doesn’t talk and Tama doesn’t and it gets so boring.
I told Steve Aronson he should write the real Revlon story, the story of
the three Lachman wives—Ruth, Rita, and Jaquine—and he said that was a
good idea.
And Calvin and Halston were sitting on the same chair, so cozy. It was
odd, and then Calvin said wouldn’t it be fun to go to Halston’s, a gas, and
so we all got into cars and we went over there and Dick Cavett came, he
was at the party with Bianca. And Bianca looked a little fat in the bottom
but she said she was thin. And she was looking her age. I don’t know what
the age is, but she was looking it.
Friday, December 12, 1986
Thomas Ammann called and told me I had a running invitation to Gstaad
for Christmas, that was nice. Nick Rhodes called and wanted to go to
dinner. I was seeing Keith and Kenny and Ann Magnuson. Nick and Julie
Anne wanted to eat so early, though. They were insisting on 7:30 and we
finally made it 8:00 (cab $5). Went to Mr. Chow’s and of course Nick and
Julie Anne didn’t get there until 9:00 or 9:15. Ann agreed to do a four-
minute thing about art and fashion for our TV show. Then all the wives—
Julie Anne and Teresa—got up and went to Nell’s in one car, knowing the
husbands would have to follow, they wanted to kick up their heels, they’d
been cooped up.
I walked home and there were drunks all over, falling down. It was the
beginning of office parties. It was nice weather, though. Walked up Park
Avenue. Benjamin had gone down in the first car with the girls. Bought
magazines ($7).
Saturday, December 13, 1986
Benjamin picked me up and we went down to Arman’s on Washington
Street. It was supposed to be for lunch but since I told them I don’t eat
lunch, there (laughs) wasn’t any and I was starved. And I got so jealous, he
showed me the jewelry he’s doing, he gets little hearts and redoes them in
gold and glues them down. I asked him to be on our TV show. And then I
got even more jealous when he told me about the dresses he’s making—a
“sleeve dress” all made of sleeves, a “pocket dress” all made of pockets. I
mean, why couldn’t I have thought of those?
In his drawings he repeats images, but not in his paintings. And he’s
doing paintings now that are just brushstrokes across. But I always wonder
if he copies Cesar. Cesar was the artist in the fifties and sixties, a short
French guy, the one who made the big hands you sit in and things like that.
He’s still alive. He did the plastic that got bigger and bigger and looked like
poop and he sold it by the piece. I wish I’d thought of that. I was thinking
about that dress that I made for that Rizzoli show that was called “Fantasy
in Fashion”—the one in the early seventies. My thing in it was a dress made
out of sewn-together pieces of designer clothes. Somebody wore it to a ball
eventually. But the timing was just too early I guess, because the bluejean
jacket thing a few weeks ago at Barneys for the AIDS benefit, that was sort
of the same thing. Corice set it up for me to get a French visa.
I took Benjamin to lunch, the lady cut the sandwich in half and it fell on
the floor and she laughed, and I don’t know if she charged me for it ($19).
We ate in the car on the way to the studio. Paige was meeting me there
before we went down to Dennis Hopper’s show at Tony Shafrazi’s gallery.
And Dennis’s show, the photographs were nothing special, I guess Tony
just wanted publicity with a movie star. Met Keith and Kenny there, they
were fun. Paige was peeved when she took a picture of Keith and then he
said (laughs), “Oh Andy, why don’t you sign this for me?” Matt Dillon was
there with a blonde girl who looked like a young Diane Lane. Diane Lane’s
only like twenty, but this girl was even younger. Everybody kept telling
Dennis how great he was in Blue Velvet. I tried to get him to be on our TV
show but he was leaving town the next day.
Monday, December 15, 1986
Tony was coming to pick me up but I didn’t know he was coming with a
car. I don’t know how he decides these things, he’s very abstract, there’s no
pattern. John Powers called, he’s back from Japan, he said he had a new
magic watch that has a crystal instead of a battery, but he sounds older all
the time so I don’t know if these crystals work. It’s funny about voices,
Diana Vreeland still has a young voice. Strong.
Keith was putting down Schnabel, saying that he sat himself right down
next to Dennis Hopper at Tony Shafrazi’s dinner for Dennis over the
weekend and then made the speech about Dennis although he didn’t even
know him.
Oh, and Dennis told me the other night that they cut the scene out of
Blue Velvet where he rapes Dean Stockwell or Dean Stockwell rapes him
and there’s lipstick on somebody’s ass.
Then went up to the Metropolitan Museum for the Shiseido party. I
guess maybe they funded the Vreeland costume show and so then they got
to give a party there. They had two big Flower paintings of mine. Peach
with black outlines. One was a gift from Peter Brant and one was a gift
from Irving Blum who I didn’t even know had one. The museum should get
all of them—I mean, that’s how they’re supposed to be—all together.
Then from the museum Steven Greenberg gave us a ride down to the
first party at the Tunnel on Twelfth Avenue and 28th Street, the club that’s
built in the tunnel of some abandoned railroad tracks. I’m the one that told
the Bonjour jeans guy to just keep the name the “Tunnel.” And it was fun
there, good music and Glorious Food. Serge the Glorious headwaiter came
over and said hi. Haoui was the doorman, Rudolf was there, it’s a great
building.
Ian Schrager was there but he walked out of one of my pictures. I guess
he didn’t want to be photographed at somebody else’s club. He was in this
beautiful blue suit and tie, and he’s gained some weight, so he’s got that
hefty, stocky, prosperous look. Handsome. Like James Caan. Steve Rubell
was in a business suit the other night saying, “I’m still in my business
clothes, I just closed a deal.”
Talked to Stuart. He said that this one guy was giving so much of his
time to do charity work for Stuart’s school, but I told him, “Look, there’s a
reason a person will give up so much time, it’s not for nothing—either he’s
down there using your phones or he’s getting away from his wife or he’s
using your limousine or he’s drinking up your liquor—it’s always
something, it’s never for nothing.”
Tuesday, December 16, 1986
I was picked up by Tony and had to go to Schnabel’s. He drove me to West
11th Street, to his huge studio. So huge. And a balcony and a roof. And he
has beautiful girl secretaries answering the phone and I asked him if
Jacqueline got jealous and he said, “You have to have beautiful boys and
girls working for you.” He’s still making his plate paintings so I guess that’s
what’s selling. And he gets on the phone and says, “Dahling! Come right
down!” and it’ll be Al Pacino who’s tearing himself away from Diane
Keaton to come down and see him. Or it’ll be Dustin Hoffman.
And the secretaries say things to him like, “You can either see your
editor at Random House at 2:44 and get out by 3:32 or at 3:46 and get out
by 4:34,” and Julian says, “I will take the 2:44.”
And he’s painting over beautiful Japanese backgrounds and ruining
them. And he’s got tarpaulins with words glued on them and he says,
“These are from my San Salvadorean exposition.”
It was the most pretentious afternoon I’ve ever had. And I left there
completely convinced I should buy a Schnabel. Fred thinks so, too. I told
Julian I’d give him a ride uptown and we went outside and there’s a
limousine parked and he’s striding toward it and I said, “Uh, Julian, that’s
not my car,” and I pointed to Tony in the little Japanese one. So we dropped
me off, and I said Julian could “have the car”—I was grand and Tony took
him where he was going.
Wednesday, December 17, 1986
So Tony picked me up and we went to Rockefeller Center and I had my
photograph taken for my visa. Then we went to Calvin Klein’s to drop off
his wedding present. Went to the office. It was busy there. Lisa Robinson
was interviewing Ric Ocasek. Gael came in and said they were doing
Charlie Sheen for the February cover. Greg Gorman shot him already and
they’re doing the second half of the interview today. I have the feeling he
won’t marry Dolly.
Ric didn’t want to be on our video. And Ann Magnuson is weird, she’d
said she would be our emcee for the show and now she isn’t even sure she
wants to do a little thing on art and fashion. I don’t understand her—she
does all these free things downtown and then she won’t do something when
we’re trying to help her.
And Gael called Sydney Biddle Barrows and asked her would she be a
“Christmas present” for Steven Greenberg and she was insulted and said
how dare you. I mean, I’d said to Gael, “What makes you think she’d do
that?” It’s like if somebody was arrested for selling secrets and they got off
and then you asked them, “Could you steal a secret for me, too?” I mean,
what did Gael say to her? “Since you’re a whore anyway …” And Gael had
been saying, “She’ll do it for me, she’ll do it for me.” I mean, just because
Gael had Cris Alexander photograph her in a good light for Interview
doesn’t mean she’ll give a freebie.
And I’m letting the Caffe Roma use my name as a host for New Year’s
Eve.
Sunday, December 21, 1986
Jed called and said he’d rushed Amos to the hospital over the weekend
because he had a bad toothache, and I felt terrible, I didn’t see this coming.
By 3:00 he was still waiting to have three teeth out. Dr. Kritsick gave Jed
the name of a doctor who works twenty-four hours. They said it was a bad
case, but I didn’t even notice anything was wrong.
Didn’t get out of the house until 4:00 and went over to church. Stuart
picked me up and we went to the flea market but couldn’t find any fleas.
Then John Gruen and his wife, Jane Wilson the painter, were having a
retirement party for Ulrik who’s moving to an executive position at the New
York City Ballet. Went over to the West Side to that (cab $4). Everybody
was so friendly to each other it was like we’re not part of this crowd.
Heather said right in front of Peter Martins that she was so tired of
seventeen years of waiting for him to give her a band. And Anne Bass is in
Texas.
Monday, December 22, 1986
Went to Dr. Li (cab $4, newspapers $2, phone $.50, cab $6). Read the
newspapers, passed out interviews., and went to the office. I decided to get
involved with the covers. Gael came by my room to say how great she is.
This cover of Charlie Sheen is by Greg Gorman, and he did the pictures
inside, too, and it’s the same old thing, a nice face and nice clothes. But
Charlie kisses so well that I wanted something different, like him kissing a
girl, and we could still use the same pictures inside, but just something
different for the cover and Gael said that she’d been looking at Weegee
things, that she wants a new look, too.
The office was busy. Fred’s agitated, he was going to go to Paris a day
or two early to get away from Christmas, he hates it. He saw me doing a
business gift list and yelled at me that we weren’t a regular office and that I
did not have to do boring things like that and that he wanted me to stop it
that very moment. So I said (laughs), “Okay.”
And the bigger the box, the less the present, I’ve noticed this year.
Rupert drove me home. Then Sam called and wanted to go out so I met
him at Nippon (cab $5, dinner $50) and talked about what work he should
be doing at the office. And it’s so funny, I made up things and accused him.
Like of attacking somebody in the corridor, and it turned out to be true! He
began admitting things, saying, “It was pure sex.” But maybe he was
kidding. It was like Dynasty, people overhearing people in the hallways. I
actually said (laughs), “I heard you in the hallway.”
Tuesday, December 23, 1986
Fred cancelled his trip to Europe, he finally got in the Christmas spirit. And
he loved the two cast-iron disks I got him that were from the West Side
Highway. I got them at Doyle’s. Maybe I should go back and get more. The
kid there likes me, and he gives me things really cheap. They have the best
fabrics there, antique fabrics. I should’ve gotten Fred a lot of those. And
Fred gave me a great book, an old one on beautiful Greek statues, for my
new paintings. Paige and Fred are the best of friends now. He gave in and
she gave in. I got Paige something she really loved, I guess, because she
squealed, and it was just a book on Clemente. But the book was just an
extra—I owe Paige a lot of money. I hope she doesn’t think I’ve forgotten
(phone $2, newspaper $2, cab $7).
Thursday, December 25, 1986
I got up early and walked to Paige’s and she and Stephen Sprouse and I
went to the Church of the Heavenly Rest to pass out interviews. and feed
the poor. It wasn’t as crowded as it was at Thanksgiving. Afterwards
Stephen and I walked down the street, and I had told John Reinhold we’d
come by and he could take us to tea and he did, at the Carlyle, and that was
sort of, I don’t know, young guys waiting for their grandmothers to die.
Stephen dropped me. Got a lot of calls to go to Christmas parties but I just
decided to stay in and 1 loved it.
Sunday, December 28, 1986
The day before I watched a great show on something like channel J. It was
(laughs) a nobody interviewing three other nobodies. One said she was a
friend of Milton Berle’s and she was in every chorus of every movie you
could ever think of. And then there was another one who was also in the
choruses and she would say, “I played the Red Room of the Downstairs
Club, and the Blue Corner of the Uptown Spot,” things like that. It was so
sad. Then she’d say, “Show thepicture, show the picture, that’s the one
they’re going to use when they use me….” And there was a black girl who
sang off key, oh it was sad.
And I finally saw Debbie Harry’s video that was made in L.A., she’s at
the Beverly Hills pool and she didn’t wear the camouflage dress that we
made for her, the Stephen Sprouse thing. I guess the director didn’t want her
to wear it, and it would’ve been so good. My ambition if I were to really go
and have a facelift and everything would be to come out like Debbie. Her
song grows on you, “French Kissing.”
I had leaking water and went into a closet and in it were the dresses I’d
bought at the Joan Crawford auction in 1977 and it turns out that the label
on one says Nolan Miller! Can you believe it? The Dynasty designer! And
now I do remember that at the auction I’d said, “Whoever heard of this
nobody?” So now I would like to write to him and say I’ll sell it back to
him for like $4,000. We’ll find out what he sells a Joan Collins dress for and
make it for that amount. The others don’t have labels, but they all look the
same so I’m sure they’re all Nolans.
Monday, December 29, 1986
Benjamin picked me up and we went to the West Side to Dr. Li. I told her to
get me off some of these vitamins she’s got me on but she gave me six new
vitamin pills and I don’t know if she took me off any. I think all the
vitamins I’m taking may be what’s making me have so much trouble
sleeping. Over the holidays, for two days, I finally did get sleep and one day
I even slept till 10:45. And on those days I did feel rested. But usually when
I wake up in the morning I feel aches and pains. And I am addicted to
Valium. It’s only a quarter of one that I take at night, but when I was really
trying for over a month not to take any, I felt lightheaded and that’s a
withdrawal symptom. So I started again.
Wednesday, December 31, 1986
Went to Bernsohn’s alone, got cured for a moment, walked downtown
(phone $2, newspapers $2). Paige was upset there were no good-looking
boys coming along on our New Year’s Eve party, and her excuse is always
that we need to find somebody for Tama, but she wants to meet them, too. I
don’t know why Paige has us doing all this for Tama—“We have to find
Tama a boyfriend.” Why? I mean, everybody in town needs a boyfriend.
The whole world needs a boyfriend. Anyway, so Stephen Sprouse was
coming. Poor Stephen, they’re even after him, I think, and he’s scared.
Worked till 7:45. The ballet kids came down and I took their pictures.
It’s so funny that when you look really close you see that Heather Watts
actually has a sort of deformed body—and she’s the number-one ballerina
in New York. And her nose is too big and it may have been fixed from
being even bigger, but her eyes are really beautiful. They’re like gorgeous
movie-star eyes, the kind with the dark circle around the blue.
So Steven Greenberg was giving his New Year’s Eve party at the River
Café in Brooklyn. It was black tie and I was just in my crummy scarf. We
left at 11:55 and we rode over the Brooklyn Bridge and that was the most
fun part of the night with Paige telling Harold the driver to honk his horn
louder and Paige was doing her piercing whistle that comes from her throat
and as we came over the bridge, the fireworks were going. And then Tama
came in the other car and she told us that Steven and Elizabeth Ray had just
had a fight, and so later I said to Steven, “So have you had a fight with
Elizabeth yet?” and he said (laughs), “No no, not yet, not yet.”
And then we went to Scott Asen’s house in Turtle Bay and there wasn’t
much happening there. Peter Martins was using the phone in the toilet and
his son was just leaving—he’s beautiful, he dances. And Sirio from Le
Cirque was there, and we took him down to Nell’s with us and he was fun.
Nell took her clothes sort of off and threw herself on the table for a
photograph and I told Sirio that he had to do that, too, if he wanted to make
Le Cirque the really “in” place. He said his wife and kids were away so he
was just on his own this New Year’s. He invited us for dinner on Sunday.
Paige and Tama went on to the Tunnel, we dropped them there, and then
got home around 4:00, walked the dogs, and it threw my whole day off, it
was so stupid to stay out late just because it was New Year’s.
Thursday, January 1, 1987
The weather was raining and awful. Stayed in and had a rest day.
Sunday, January 4, 1987
The ballet kids wanted to take us to dinner at Indochine. Paige picked me
up. Stephen Sprouse was there and it was Ulrik and Jock and Bruce Padgett
and Heather and Scott Asen and Julie Gruen—Peter Martins was the only
one missing. It’s such a wonderful group, they have everything down. And
Heather said that she always thought Stephen was passive, but that since
he’s started doing ballet costumes she’s changed her mind. Everybody else
always gave her what she wanted, she said, but when Stephen gave her her
dress and she said, “Oh I don’t want this,” he told her, “You’re going to get
what I say you get.” So she liked that and now she wants to marry him. So
that’s another girl who’s after him. Heather paid.
Monday, January 5, 1986
There’s a cable news show that I see at 5:30 in the morning when I get up to
pee that’s good. I don’t know what it is I’m allergic to. Dr. Linda Li says it
may be the paint I use, but I’m hardly ever near it now. I think it’s
something in this house. Or maybe it’s something in the buildings on either
side of me, maybe radiation from the doctor’s building. Maybe it’s the
teddy-bear coat I sleep in, although the label says it’s all cotton, I don’t
know. It’s Armani. I somehow feel it might have a little polyester, it has that
fuzzy feeling. And I also sleep under the Larissa leather coat that Jane
Holzer gave me, it’s so great. Jane keeps saying I never wear it and I tell her
I wear it every night.
Paige picked me up and we went to the St. Regis for the Adolfo show.
The clothes are beautiful but it’s so abstract to me that somebody should
copy Chanel suits for years, that you’d make a career out of copying
somebody else’s suit. It’s been decades and it’s still the same suit. There
was a tall lady next to us and I didn’t smile at her or anything, I didn’t know
who it was, and then later I realized it was Evangeline Bruce. There were so
many ladies there that I just should be doing portraits of, just every one was
one of those rich ladies. And they still have all their energy from not having
hard lives.
You know, Heather Watts is so interesting. She’s in this “reading group”
that Anne Bass is in, they all read the same book every month and then they
meet and discuss it. And it’s all these rich ladies like Brooke Astor and Mrs.
Rupert Murdoch and Drue Heinz. And they meet at a different member’s
house every week with the butlers and cooks and maids, and Heather says
she’s the only poor one and that she’s the only one who reads the books.
She dropped out of school at fifteen. And you know how vivacious she is,
she said she heard about Anne Bass’s group at a party and she said, “I want
to be in it! I want to be in it!” Heather can’t wait for the group to have to
come to her loft and they’ll all sit on the floor.
Then Paige and I went to the Robert Miller Gallery and the show of my
photographs looks absolutely great. Terrific. The catalogue looks good but
Stephen Koch’s essay throws in the same old names like Duchamp and
Brassai. Brassai!!! And if they’d had some young person do it it would’ve
been different names and fresher.
I decided not to go out and just rest up and be fresh for the opening of
the show.
Tuesday, January 6, 1987
Everybody wanted to give me their limo—Steven Greenberg, Stuart Pivar,
the glamour days—and Paige gave the gallery fifty more people to call and
invite at the last minute. Had a full day at work. Got to the gallery at 5:00
and then there was only a scattering of people, but it got to be more and
more and I worked myself to death. The show looked great. Then we went
to dinner with Steven Greenberg and then I went home and went to bed
early, I thought I would shake this cold, but then Jean Michel called at 3:00
in the morning and I talked to him and it just ruined my sleep.
Oh, and I’ve just been watching the new Joan Rivers show a few times
and it’s just only about sex all the time—so boring.
Wednesday, January 7, 1987
Lost my cold when I went to Bernsohn in the morning. I walked in and
didn’t tell him I had a one but he said I felt congested and then he worked
on me and for the first time used a lot of crystals on me like the long skinny
ones and for the first time I really completely totally believed in it, because
my cold was absolutely gone when I left there. And he said to me, “Do you
mind if I raise my price $10?” And I said, “yes!” I mean, he’s telling me
about all the clothes and records he’s buying. And so he said, “Well, then
how about $5?” And I said, “Well, what can I say?”
Thursday, January 8, 1987
Sam told me gossip about Fred that I’m not supposed to know. He wrote a
letter to Nell apologizing for pulling his pants down there. And then I also
heard that one night at Area he took out his cock and was standing there like
one of the installations until somebody realized it.
Paige was in a really bad mood because I had Sam dial her number and
make the arrangements to go to the Mary Tyler Moore play that Barry
Tubbs is in—she came over and said that she didn’t want my little
messengerettes calling her for me. She really has another personality when
she wants to, she can really be mean.
Oh, and Len Morgan came back from his ten-day cruise with Thurn und
Taxis so he was answering the phones. And the prince still makes up stories
about me. He told Len that once I said to him, “If you’re supposed to be so
exciting, do something exciting,” and that then I stepped on his toes. Which
I don’t remember at all.
Went to the theater (cab $4). Lynn Redgrave is a good actress because
she played down her role to give Mary Tyler Moore the stage. And the other
young guy in the play showed his cock and then afterwards at the party his
parents said how (laughs) proud they were of him.
Friday, January 9, 1987
I’m deciding when to go to Milan. My show is the Thursday after next.
Fell asleep with MTV on and had rock-video nightmares.
Sunday, January 11, 1987
Pee-Wee Herman is being sued for $130,000 because he didn’t pay his
(laughs) video bill. His whole show’s all video effects.
These two kids have been ringing my doorbell all weekend. A boy and a
girl. I guess they saw me come in and there’s been nobody in the house with
me—Nena and Aurora were away—and it’s creepy. I just don’t answer.
Went to church, then Paige called and said she’d pick me up for the
ballet (cab $5). The ballets were great. “Symphony in C” which I haven’t
seen in years, and then two Jerome Robbins ones. We had Peter Martins’s
seats. Jock and Heather were up there just flying around. And they said I
could photograph the company for as long as I want, so I’m going to start
that.
Anne Bass wasn’t at the ballet but she came to the dinner afterwards that
Paige had arranged at Baton. And Paige and I are fighting. She keeps
making these digs about Jean Michel, she said, “Are you starting up your
gay affair again with Jean Michel?” and so I got my dig in and said,
“Listen, I wouldn’t go to bed with him because he’s so dirty, and I can’t
believe that anyone would. I mean, you’re the one who had the affair with a
dirty, unwashed person.” And then we had a fight about Eizo and shiatsu
because her guy went on vacation so she’s been using Eizo and she asked
me if he ever did a thing on my stomach and she described how he’d put his
hands and was shaking it and she got nervous and took his hand away, and
so I said, “No, but he told me how fat you are”—I was kidding—and so she
said, “Okay, that does it, I’m not using him anymore.” And then I tried to
tell her he didn’t say she was fat, but she wouldn’t believe me.
And Peter Martins who commissioned me to do the ballet curtain, he
actually does have great ideas. I didn’t think so before but now I do. He
talked to Stephen Sprouse about the Touch Tag thing where the kids who
play football use clothes with Velcro so that instead of tackling and wearing
shoulder pads, they have to tear the Velcro off, so they’re working on the
“Fluorescent Orange” ballet, and then the kids thought of fluorescent snow.
And when Ulrik told me he hadn’t had time that night to walk his dog, I
used Heather’s aggressive personality and I said, “Why didn’t you just put
the dog on stage and have him do it there and no one would notice.” And I
was telling everyone about my idea for a “Shower” ballet that I’ve always
had—nude dancers getting into the shower after a heavy dance number and
then shaking the water off on the audience.
The ballet kids were quiet at first but after ten glasses of wine they were
really funny. And Stephen Sprouse was showing how he writes backwards,
he’s so clever and he had such beautiful writing. And then something really
surreal happened. A busload of eight-year-olds came into this restaurant,
about fifty of them, and filled it up, at the bar and everyplace. And we asked
them what they were doing there and they said they were going from bar to
bar researching a school paper. It got really loud and noisy. They said they
were going on to Nell’s.
Monday, January 12, 1987
Sean Lennon came down. I’m doing a portrait of him every year, one a year.
And he was fun. Went to Castellano’s for dinner (cab $6) with David
Whitney, but without Philip who was off having dinner with some swells.
And David still reminds me that he wants us to get married, and now that I
hear how many Jasper Johnses he has, it would be really worth it. He’s
doing the David Salle show at the Whitney. He said that Jasper fell out of a
tree at La Samanna but that he just broke a wrist. He and Rauschenberg
have given up drinking so I guess they’ll live forever.
Tuesday, January 13, 1987
Had to go to a Food Emporium on 70th and West End Avenue for an Easter
Seals thing that Dr. Kritsick the handsome veterinarian helped organize
where Almond Delight breakfast cereal was putting hundred-dollar bills in
the boxes and you had to go through the store finding them. Like an Easter
egg hunt (cab $4). And there were no celebrities, really, although there were
supposed to have been. Just a karate guy. But the great and only celebrity
was Eddie Fisher and he wasso much fun! He looks young but ugly, but he’s
so much fun! I can see why Carrie Fisher married the Simon guy because
he’s like Eddie without curls. If I’d ever met Eddie in the sixties we
would’ve been best of friends. Now he just does charity work. The first
thing he said was, “You did a picture of me.” The one I did in 1962—the
newspaper front-page of him and Liz. And I told him about all my crystal
doctors and chiropractors and he was really interested and then later as I
was leaving the office at 5:00—I had to leave early—he was calling, he’d
looked up the Interview number, and so I’ll call him back. He was so much
fun.
Anyway, back at the thing, we went through the store and I only found
one box but Kritsick found ten and Eddie found two so I gave him mine to
make it three. So then I was leaving and they offered me a car but I was
grand and said no, but I should’ve taken it because it was so windy out
(newspapers $5, phone $2, cab $5).
Wednesday, January 14, 1987
It was a beautiful warm day. Went to the office and Ian McKellen was there
for lunch, it was Fred’s lunch, and Sarah Giles from Vanity Fair. And he
was so cute, he’s so sexy, his play Wild Honey just closed on Broadway and
I really wanted to see it, it looked so good in the TV ads.
Went to the Dolly Parton party with Sam and Len down to the Gotham
(cab $3.50). Dolly was arriving right when we got there and she gave a
speech saying that this was a party to celebrate signing with CBS Records
after being with RCA for twenty years. She just turned forty and she looks
absolutely beautiful, but like everything’s been done. She’s really tiny but
her tits are so huge they have to be implants because you just can’t get that
thin and still have those big tits— I’m sure they would’ve shrunk. Barry
Diller came with Calvin and Kelly, and David Brenner came.
Dolly was sweet. Danny Fields was there and I told him I want to tape
his life story and he said he would let me.
All the Details people were there and they had the new issue with
Stephen Saban’s pictures that he took in a photo booth in ‘65 when we were
down at the University of Pennsylvania for my first art show. I guess at the
time he was a student and he had me sign one picture and Edie signed
another and Gerard signed another. It’s a full page and it looked great.
Annie Flanders was there and Michael Musto. James St. James was wearing
four-inch heels and so was Dolly. And a black guy named Childs was there
and he said, “I’m Cedar Bar,” meaning he was somebody who used to hang
around there, and he looked at young Sam sitting there with his snotty
attitude and said, “I see these young kids and all I can think is, ‘Pay your
dues.’ “ And he was right, Sam has a lot to learn and I hope he learns it. I
spoiled him, taking him to glamorous places when his mind wasn’t ready
for it. Now he thinks that’s what he deserves and he’s fresh to everybody.
And then Paige and I walked over to Nell’s. It was beautiful weather, in
the forties or fifties. And Nell’s was so glamorous. Fred was there with Ian
McKellen and his I guess boyfriend Sean. And against the wall was Claus
von Bulow and Cosima and Andrea Reynolds, and Nell just goes around
taking pictures of people like Fred passed out on the divans. She has a
funny picture of Taki whispering in Bob Colacello’s ear and Anthony
Haden-Guest trying to hear it. And Sting was there, he wears Cerutti clothes
now, and Nell asked him how his career and all started and he said this and
that happened and then he said, “And then Andy made me a star.” Maybe
we were the first to put him alone on a magazine cover. He said he wants to
do plays now. I don’t know why Sting would ever do that Frankenstein
movie, The Bride. If it had been a singing Frankenstein, that would’ve been
something.
And then Nell left her chair and then Bob Dylan came over and sat
down and he said he’d just seen my photography show at the Miller Gallery
—that he’d literally just come from there. And then Nell came back and
pretended she didn’t know who he was and said that that was her seat.
I want Nell to take pictures for Interview, but she only takes color
pictures so I left her some of my black and white film.
I introduced von Bulow to Nell and then to Dylan. I lost my scarf and I
was glad because I hated it. But then I found it. That cashmere scarf I
ordered from Brigid’s friend who knitted it on a machine and it was
supposed to be like the red Halston one I’d lost, but the Halston one was
somehow so light and this one is so heavy. Paige dropped me off at 2:00.
And poor Bess Myerson’s on suspension. She’s really in trouble because
they say she sort of bribed a judge to reduce her married boyfriend’s
alimony payments. I can’t believe all these men fighting over this sixty-
year-old lady.
Friday, January 16, 1987
I just can’t face going to Europe. And the TV news said they’re smearing
themselves with bear grease in Russia this week, it’s so cold over there.
Rode uptown to the David Salle opening. Bruno and Yoyo were there.
It’s sixties work all from Jim Dine and Rauschenberg and Jasper and me—
all put together and beautiful. It’s intellectual.
And Sam Wagstaff died the other day.
Then cabbed to Mr. Chow’s for the Salle dinner ($5). All the art dealers
were there. And Mary Boone who wants to give me a show, the Rorschach
things. And the Voice gave my photography show a good review.
I still want to do the “Worst of Warhol,” all the stuff that didn’t come
off. I’ll (laughs) have to do more, though.
Bruno wanted to sit with Robert Mapplethorpe but I didn’t want to. He’s
sick. I sat at another place.
Saturday, January 17, 1987
Did a last Diary with PH before the European trip where it’s still so cold.
Went to the office and worked until 7:00, and then Paige picked me up and
we went down to Keith Haring’s opening. Keith’s show was interesting, the
work looked different, it was as if he wanted to have a lot of things to show
so he worked faster, it’s not so planned-looking. Yoko and her Sam were
there but Sean wasn’t, Yoko said he had gone off to a birthday party, that he
was old enough now to be making his own plans. Later I said to Keith,
though, “Oh, gee, where’s Sean?” To make sure he noticed that Sean hadn’t
come. To rub it in. I guess it was mean but (laughs) I’m still jealous that
Sean likes Keith better than me.
Sunday, January 18, 1987—New York—Paris
The weather in New York was great and I hated to leave it. Got up at 6:00
and packed. I tried not to think. The bag was too heavy, don’t know why. I
never change clothes over there and never take a shower. I always wind up
just sleeping in my clothes every night. Chris Makos picked me up at 10:00.
Picked Fred up, he was on time. Got to the airport (driver $60). Wore
layers, everything on my back.
Got to Paris. A driver named Freddy picked us up. Checked into Hotel
Lenox. Chris had the better room, naturally, what else is new? My room
was freezing but it was cute. Small but cute. All that nice old kind of French
wood. We walked on the ice to the Café Flore. Had some sandwiches and
that was it. We were the only ones there, we closed it ($35). Back at the
hotel I fell asleep with all the lights on. Chris was smart, he had two heaters
sent up to his room.
Monday, January 19, 1987—Paris
We went to the Beaubourg and Chris got us in free and we saw the Schnabel
show there and it looked great, he looked like a talented artist, and then we
went up to the Japanese show, it looked like they copied everything from
the West, a lot of Frank Lloyd Wright. Lunch at this chic cafe ($35). I went
down to pee and it was a wonderful bathroom, a big sheet of glass with
water running behind it and you piss on the glass. So modern, so weird. If
Chris hadn’t told me, I wouldn’t have known where to pee. It looks like a
fountain.
Tuesday, January 20, 1987—Paris
Ran into Art Kane, the photographer, and spent some time with him. He
said he was married again, to a French wife. Ran into Fred, had something
at Café Flore ($15). Bought magazines, caught up on the good ones ($20).
Tried calling some kids for dinner but nobody seemed to answer their phone
—James Brown and all those kids. Chris looked at our plane tickets and
noticed that they went to Rome instead of Milan, so I decided we were
going to fire our travel agent. Chris worked on the phone getting it
straightened out. Stayed up reading magazines.
Wednesday, January 21, 1987—Paris—Milan
Met by the police and they took us right through customs and everything
because Lisa Soltilis was with lolas and she’d gotten the police to do
everything for us. If we’d been sneaking in marijuana or drugs it would’ve
been so easy. She was so friendly, but later we began hearing wild stories
about how her husband was keeping lolas in a sanitarium. Found lolas in
the VIP room. He was like a little old lady wrapped up in fabric. We found
out later he’d come out of the hospital just to pick us up. Then the whole
story began unraveling. lolas was just presenting me at the bank Credito-
Valtellinese. “Alexander lolas Presents Andy Warhol.” He must’ve gotten
all this money to “present” us. My Last Supper show was closing down that
day and my other show was opening, so there was lots of publicity. lolas
was really sweet. He had to be driven back to the hospital. Lisa took us to
the hotel. Our rooms were beautiful. The Principe di Savoy. Christopher
took the best room with the TV. Fred was down the hall (bag man $10,
magazines $25, waiter $5). Daniela Morera called and began taking over.
She said she had the flu and I knew I was going to get it from her. Went to
the gallery to do press and TV. We had a car of our own, twenty-four-hour
service.
Thursday, January 22, 1987—Milan
Went to the gallery for the 11:00 press conference, 250 press people. Scary
and stupid. Got that all over with. Signed a lot of posters. Then we had free
time. Lunch with Gianni Versace, went to his castle. Rizzoli’s old castle.
Big Roman and Greek statues that Suzie Frankfurt got Versace to buy. It
was grand, huge, so glamorous. We had a good time.
Then had to go back to the gallery to do another press conference at
4:30. Stayed till 8:30 with Daniela coughing in my face and me signing
autographs. Gianni did the costumes for Bob Wilson’s Salome at La Scala.
He got us tickets so I could slip away from my opening when I got tired.
Finally Fred grabbed my pen and whisked me away.
Sat in a box seat watching the opera, then had to go to this dinner for
me. Saw Gerard Malanga’s first girlfriend there who he wrote all the poems
about, Benedetta Barzini. She was with her husband and being so grand. I
ate a lot and Daniela was coughing into my food. I’d been resisting her flu
for two days straight while she talked into my face, but finally I gave in and
got it. Went home just exhausted.
Friday, January 23, 1987—Milan
Woke up feeling a little funny, read the newspapers (waiter $5). Daniela
was going to come and take us to lunch but I was exhausted and I decided
I’d stay in and nap a little. My temperature went up to 100 so I began taking
vitamin Cs and my stomach got sour. Then lolas called to say he was
coming over and I’d never really gotten a good night’s sleep. Daniela went
out with Chris and Fred and they brought me back drugstore medicines
which turned out to be antihistamines which kept me up instead of putting
me to sleep, so it was a day of horror but it went by fast.
Iolas looked all right. And Fred stayed on an extra day to do business
with him. Chris came by and ordered soup, taking my temperature every
minute. It went up and down. He went out and had a good time discoing
and I kept taking Valiums and not being able to sleep. My temperature went
down. Watched TV and tried to sleep, getting ready to get up at 6:00.
Saturday, January 24, 1987—Milan—New York
Got up in Milan. I hadn’t slept all night after taking the pills that Daniela
got me. All they did was dry me up and the suppository didn’t do anything,
but my fever was going so I think I just had the twenty-four-hour flu, after
all. I’d taken vitamin C and even aspirin. Christopher got me some soup and
bread. But those pills sort of hung there all night, just stuck, and didn’t go
anywhere. I hate Daniela for giving me the flu and I hate her for those pills.
But I’d also taken Valium like crazy and nothing happened, but then in the
morning everything was fine. Left the place (concierge $50, doormen $25,
baggage $10, driver $100, magazines $20). Got to the airport easily.
And on the plane a milestone happened—I was in the International
Herald Tribune and I didn’t even bother to clip the article. I just—didn’t—
care. So I’ve gotten to that point. Maybe it was just that I felt so sick, but
still I didn’t bother. And Chris pointed out that this lady in Milan who was
so nice and sweet and glamorous when she was interviewing me wrote
horrible mean things.
We got to New York and the driver was waiting (car $70). I didn’t get a
receipt. I really wasn’t feeling well.
Sunday, January 25, 1987
Paige was sweet, she brought over soup and bread and dessert from the
Café Condotti. She really goes out of her way and she’s got so much energy,
she’s like Chris, except that Chris only does it for himself, and Paige does it
for other people. I can see why she gets upset when things happen, because
she puts so much into other people.
And Mrs. Aquino’s being so grand in the Philippines, smiling away, and
her guards killed thirteen people at the palace. Why didn’t they shoot over
their heads? Or use tear gas. It makes you think that Communists did it to
other Communists just to start trouble. Or something.
It was Superbowl Sunday and seeing the people in the stands, football
games are really the best places to meet macho guys. If Paige wants to meet
men and get married she should be going to football games, not to the
ballet! Go bowling in Brooklyn—Manhattan is too sophisticated.
Then there were tickets put aside for me at the Joyce Theater where
Robert LaFosse was doing a guest appearance in Karole Armitage’s ballet.
This is the thing that her boyfriend David Salle did the costumes for, he’s
the artistic director. And then Paige had arranged dinner at Indochine with
the New York City Ballet people to talk about the curtain they want me to
design. That was at 9:45 or 10:00.
The phone kept ringing and my stomach was a mess, I shouldn’t have
eaten the dessert Paige brought. Kenny Scharf called trying to get me to buy
land in Brazil and I’d been ready to send him a check but then Fred had
screamed at me about it while we were in Europe. He was insisting that it’s
just black-market sales and you don’t have a contract or really proof that
you own it. But it’s so cheap. And Paige wanted to go in on it with me and
she was going to go down for a week and check it out. You get (laughs)
your own coconut tree. But they say there are too many killings there and
that they could just take the land away from you at any time. But gee, it’s so
cheap.
Stuart and I went to Sotheby’s and it was packed, they had Americana.
Jamie Wyeth was there but not Phyllis, and he looks older, he’s lost his
boyish charm, he’s grander. Then I felt worse so I went to the drugstore and
got some Maalox.
And Peter Wise called up, I knew he would call because I heard he
wants a job with Stuart Pivar. But ever since that time he wouldn’t accept
my word over Kent Klineman’s, I just think he’s stupid….Didn’t I ever tell
the Diary about this? About the big fight I had with Peter? I mean, here I’d
been good friends with him for six years and I’m telling him a fact and
suddenly he was saying, “Well that’s not what Kent says,” and I said, “Well
if 1 say something’s red and you can see that it’s not, you should still
believe me because we’re friends.” So I told him that if he didn’t want to
believe me he should just ask Fred and he did and it turned out I was right,
but he hadn’t believed me alone, and that made me so mad, I just thought it
was so awful. And when he called yesterday we never got around to talking
about the job he wants to get working for Stuart, but I know that’s what he
wanted.
And now somehow I’ve hired Chris’s friend Ken to pick me up in the
mornings, he’s going to be my new bodyguard. He’s a really good-looking
tall blond kid. The one from Florida.
So then I went over to the Joyce Theater and Tama met us there, she
came in from Princeton (tickets $40). The production was stinkeroo, but
Robert LaFosse is really professional.
Then after the ballet I couldn’t face dinner at Indochine so I just went to
a fruit stand and I got a pineapple and bananas and apples and I went home.
The driver asked me for an autograph so I had to tip big (cab $9). And then
I made juices out of the stuff and by the time I was done it had taken so
long I could’ve gone to the dinner—after squeezing everything and washing
out the juicer. Took a sleeping pill and slept all night. Woke up at 6:00.
Monday, January 26, 1987
Ken picked me up and it was too cold to pass interviews out so we didn’t
even take any (magazines $6). Went to the West Side to Dr. Li’s (cab $4).
Our Charlie Sheen cover is really good timing. Platoon is the big thing.
And Interview’s coming down an inch, Gael said. With the new postage
rates it’ll save $20,000 a month. I guess a big-size magazine doesn’t mean
anything—I don’t know what does.
Paige said there were big advertising dinners on Wednesday and
Thursday, and Nikki Haskell called and invited me to a couple of parties at
the Tunnel on those nights. I don’t know about these advertising dinners—
you give up a night of your life just to try to get one ad. But on the other
hand you do meet people, and sometimes it turns into other business with
them.
Nick Rhodes called and wanted to go to dinner. Cabbed to II Cantinori
($5). And when Pino doesn’t do the food it’s just awful. It was also with
Elizabeth Saltzman and her new boyfriend— Glenn Dubini! And it was so
odd to see him there making out with her. And I guess he does have money
after all, I wasn’t sure when he was with Bianca. They had just flown to the
Superbowl in a private plane and stayed at the Beverly Hills and come back
the next day. Simon LeBon and Nick Rhodes arrived (dinner $240).
Oh, and I talked on the phone to Glenn O’Brien about why the sixties
were coming back or something, he was doing an article for Elle, he was
fun.
Got home and at 12:00 the phone rang and it was Billy Name. Have I
forgotten to say that he’s been calling? He’s up there in Poughkeepsie and
he’s organizing a sixties reunion and he has like three jobs up there, deputy
sheriff and everything, and he was just chattering away—“You know how
deeply I love you, honey”—about how Gerard is coming up and Ingrid
Superstar and how I’d be picked up and taken to Stephen Shore’s house—
he works at Bard College now—and all this stuff. But I’m going to just
have to tell Billy that I can’t face the past. And I’d walked into the house
and didn’t look where I stepped and so I was talking to him with dog poop
all over my shoes.
Tuesday, January 27, 1987
Manson was on the Today Show and he was saying why did he kill so few
people—that he could’ve been really big and killed everybody. Here’s all
this money wasted on keeping him alive when he should just be killed.
Michelle Loud came to work, she’s back from vacation and she’s
working on the sewing machine stitching together the porno photos I’ve
been taking, but I have to call the office and say to hide them because those
kids we’ve got around the office now—the ones from Interview who I don’t
even know—they’d probably report me to the police. It’d be the sixties all
over again. I bet they could still arrest you for taking porno pictures, if they
wanted to.
Wednesday, January 28, 1987
Howard Read said Victor Bockris came to interview him for his book about
me. I’m surprised Howard could give an interview—he doesn’t know
anything about me.
I met a boy named Cal who’s cute but only has half his teeth, he’s a
messenger, and messengers really are the best dressers, but I guess they
already did the Kevin Bacon movie about a bike messenger, but nobody’s
done a print spread on them yet. He’s been hit by a bus a couple of times.
Thursday, January 29, 1987
At 9:30 A.M. I was already rushing out because I’d promised Phoebe Cates
I’d go to the Hard Rock Café for a benefit for Covenant House which is for
runaway kids. Went with Ken. He’s nice but he’s real slow. But he’s a better
walker than Tony because he picks out good-looking Interview-type people
and hands the magazine to them. Mathilda Cuomo was there.
After that I cabbed to Chris Makos’s to photograph more nudes ($4,
modeling fees $300). Did that from 1-3:00 and while I was there I heard
Chris call Paige so I got on the phone to tell her that La Vie en Rose might
want to advertise and she started screaming at me that I hadn’t shown up for
an important advertising lunch, and it was like having a nagging wife. And
then she accused me of just being down at Chris’s to take male porno
photographs, which I was, but I mean, it was for work! I mean, I’m just
trying to work and make some money. I mean, there’s a lot of hungry
mouths to feed at the office! I have a business to keep going! I mean, the
porno pictures are for a show. They’re work.
Saturday, January 31, 1987
Paige had an advertising dinner planned at Caffe Roma. I worked till 8:00
(cab $7). Heather Watts wanted to meet the poorest kid in New York
because she’s been spending so much time with Anne Bass, so Stephen
Sprouse brought her a cute messenger who has a twelve-inch tattoo. They
put two tables together for us in the front, and there was a Mafia-type guy at
the bar who said stuff about Stephen’s punk hair, and Stephen got so scared
he left and then Paige went over and started telling the guy off, and she
almost got it, she really almost was history. He was a greaseball, a big ox,
about 6’5”. Huge. So then Peter Martins was obligated to go over and
defend Paige and then Jock Soto got up, too, and all I could think of was
that the whole New York City Ballet company would be wiped out by this
Mafia bruiser at the bar. It was scary. A lot of talk like “asshole” and all
those words. Heather loved it.
So Peter was a man and defended Paige but after the bruiser left, he was
so relieved that he sank in his chair and he told her, “Paige, I’m never going
out with you again—you’re too much troubled
Dropped Wilfredo off and went home to bed (cab $6.50).
Monday, February 2, 1987
Was picked up by Ken. Stuart’s friend Christopher O’Riley, the pianist, got
great reviews in The New York Times in an article on virtuosos.
And Liberace’s dying. He looked so healthy when he came to the office
last year, didn’t he?
I called Nell to ask her to be that week’s emcee for our TV show but she
said she was on the other line talking to Australia and she’d call me right
back but she never did, which I thought was weird.
A couple of people have called and said they were doing biographies of
me. Fred told them we didn’t want them to, but they said they’ll do them
anyway.
Worked and then they picked me up for the black-tie dinner at the Saint
that Rado Watches was giving and it was all built around the painting I did
and Sarah Vaughn singing. And we were all afraid to eat anything because
the Saint has the gay taint from when it used to be a gay disco. It was so
dark there and they were serving the food on black plates.
But Sarah Vaughn sang and she was great—fat and sweating but she’s
still got a voice. And then they wanted us to go to her room and so they
took us there and it was past all the bad rooms where all the sex things used
to happen. We were holding our breath. And we told Sarah she was great,
but she was just interested in her drink, she told somebody, “Cap my
brandy,” or something like that. She’ll be at the Blue Note in April.
Then we were hungry so Paige and Wilfredo and I went next door to that
place called “103” on Second Avenue and that’s where we should take
people to dinner because it came to $11 for three teas, a Coke, a bowl of
chili, and two sandwiches. Could that have been a mistake? Left a big tip
($20). And we picked up a couple of waiters for Wilfredo to use as models
in the shoots he’s setting up in Atlantic City for Interview.
Tuesday, February 3, 1987
Ken picked me up and he’s good because he’s big and strong so he can
carry all the interviews. I just have to sign them. It was such a beautiful day
out. It was hard to think about going to work so we went to eat ($15, phone
$2, newspapers $2, cab $7.50). Didn’t run into anybody.
Nell finally called back and when I asked her to do the TV show she
said she’d have to check with her partners, but I think she just wanted to
think about it. I think she’s like Ann Magnuson, that’s why she just hasn’t
made it. I mean, in show business. They’re both the same—at the last
minute they get odd and don’t want to “give it away,” but they’re not doing
anything else anyway. They need more exposure.
Wednesday, February 4, 1987
And the Post had a picture of Ingrid Superstar with a big story: “Warhol
Star Vanishes.” I thought she was going to be at the reunion Billy Name is
setting up. I wonder if Gerard gave this to the papers just to get his name in.
Brigid never even told me they called about her. I would’ve cared that
Ingrid was missing. People magazine had been calling because they’re
doing a story on Ivy Nicholson and they wanted me to give a quote and for
her I did tell Brigid to tell People we’d “never heard of her,” but that was
only because it was Ivy—Ingrid I would’ve cared about. But I bet
something did happen to her. It said she went out for a pack of cigarettes
and never came back. This is in upstate New York. And People said Ivy was
doing a “comeback,” but I mean, what would it be as? Could she still
model? I wonder how she looks these days.
Alba Clemente came to have her picture done for a portrait, and she’s so
beautiful. I photographed her nude.
Andre Balazs invited me to a Details screening of Black Widow with
Debra Winger and Teresa Russell. Cabbed ($5) to 58th and Third. And the
movie was nothing, a lesbian movie. The only thing I really wondered was
whether that black-widow pin she got as a wedding present was real or
costume, and I looked across the aisle to PH and she was wondering the
same thing.
Thursday, February 5, 1987
Went to E.A.T. and our favorite girl gave us extra food (tip $15). I ate it all,
which was a mistake (phone $.50, newspaper $1, cab $5).
And then at the office, Sam had potato chips with vinegar and salt and I
ate so many of those because they were so unusual. Vincent was doing the
TV show and there were no celebrity hostesses available so we used a cute
girl model. But when I did my scenes with her, I sat in a funny position and
I got a pain and it didn’t go away.
Paige was home sick so I had a free night, no advertising dinners, and
Sam and I decided to go to a movie and then John Reinhold wanted to join
us so we could talk about the jewelry business at dinner first. So went to
Nippon (cab $6). And we did that stuff, and then we decided to see the
Bette Midler Outrageous Fortune movie since it was the big money-maker
of the week, but as we were leaving the restaurant I felt a sharp pain and I
couldn’t go on. I got scared and said I couldn’t go and they dropped me off.
I was trying to think positively and mind-over-matter and when I got to my
front door it was like a miracle, it suddenly went away. It was completely
gone. And then I wished I’d hung on for a few minutes because then I
wouldn’t have had to tell anybody something was wrong. But I went inside
and locked the dogs out of the room because they were bothering me and
they got mad, they didn’t understand I was mentally unstable. And I fell
asleep and woke up when Joan Rivers was on and she was doing something
odd on her show, solving a mystery of somebody being killed, like a game.
So now I’m throwing out all the junk food. I guess it was a gallbladder
attack. And then I remembered that when I got the first one was when Fred
took me to the Waldorf to meet the old Mrs. Woodward who was about
ninety then—it was ‘73 or ‘74 I think—and he had to take me to the
hospital, and then this week is when that novel Nick Dunne wrote, The Two
Mrs. Grenvilles, is on TV, which was really the Elsie Woodward story, so I
felt like there was a connection.
Friday, February 6, 1987
Ken picked me up and we walked up Madison with interviews.. It was a
beautiful day. Then went to lower Broadway with Stuart and looked for
stuff, then he dropped us off at the office. Rupert was closing down his
office so he didn’t come in. He finally unloaded the Duane Street building
he owns for $1.1 million. These kids who were living there were so
horrible, they wouldn’t move out. Rupert offered to pay them off but they
wouldn’t move. He sold it to Israelis, and you can bet they’ll get them out.
Worked all afternoon and then decided to try again to see Outrageous
Fortune. Wilfredo came and Len and Sam, and we went to Nippon first to
discuss Interview articles that they’re working on (dinner $175).
We couldn’t get into Outrageous Fortune, the line was too long, and so
we went and saw a movie about the KGB, an English movie, and we all fell
asleep, it was absolutely boring (tickets $24, popcorn $5).
Wilfredo dropped everybody off ($10). And then watched MTV and
waited for commercials for our show on Sunday, which I finally did see and
the show looks like it might be interesting, it’s on Romance.
Sunday, February 8, 1987
Stuart picked me up at church, and it was embarrassing to walk from the
church steps into a big black limo. And we went to 76th Street to the flea
market to get books. This one guy bought somebody’s library so he’s got
forty boxes of books to sell and he brings one box in every week and people
line up for it at 9:00. I got some books, even a Museum of Modern Art
catalog from 1962 when the de Menils had a show, and I didn’t even know
them then.
Stuart always buys an old hat and always loses it. He loves old clothes,
he loves to smell them.
We were going to see Johnny Mathis and we got Alba Clemente and
John Reinhold tickets, too, so Stuart dropped me off and then Paige rang
my bell and had pineapples for me and I had to just dump them in the
hallway because I’d already locked up. She had high energy and it was,
“Hi-i-i-i-i!” It’s just too much. So we went to Radio City (cab $5). It turned
out to be two hours of hits from Henry Mancini, he opened the show, so it
was the Pink Panther and everything else and it was sooo boring, and Paige
was going, “Isn’t this greeeaaat!” She’s got to get cooler, I wanted to slap
her out, my nerves were jumping. Then Johnny Mathis came out and he’s
still got his voice. I never noticed that so much depends on how you hold
the microphone. And then finally it was over, but then he came back and did
an encore. And then we left. Paige dropped me and I watched MTV.
Monday, February 9, 1987
I went to the dentist really early in the morning. Dr. Lyons and his perfect
American family are doing fine. Then Ken picked me up there. The
temperature was dropping fast from the time I went out in the morning.
Cabbed to the West Side to Dr. Li ($4, newspaper $3).
Cabbed downtown ($6). Brigid had to go home to give her mother a
morphine shot. She was back in a couple of hours, it didn’t take long—she’s
really upset at the idea that her mother’s going to go in the winter and it’ll
be another funeral in the cold ground, she would rather it would be in
spring. And I don’t know why they didn’t cremate Liberace right away and
not give him an autopsy—they should’ve just rushed him through.
I asked Paige to go to the Dionne Warwick perfume thing at
Stringfellow’s and we went down there. She brought the issue of Interview
to show to Dionne that had the writeup we gave her perfume last year when
it came out, but then Jacques Bellini took it from Paige before she had the
chance to give it to her. And Dionne’s distributing the perfume herself, it
turns out. It smells like lemon chiffon pie. Very strong. And Stringfellow
and his daughter were there, and it was just so easy—got photographed and
got out of there. Tipped the doorman ($5) because I thought it was the guy
who always got me cabs at the Palladium and Studio 54, but it wasn’t him.
Went to Nippon (cab $6). Had dinner, lots of free food—Paige paid. We
talked about the shows I’ll be having this year—another photography show
at Robert Miller and then some new paintings at Mary Boone … I don’t
know yet what they’ll be.
Finally made it to see Outrageous Fortune and it wasn’t much—they
didn’t even give Bette Midler one really great scene to do.
Tuesday, February 10, 1987
In the morning I bought so much big stuff—huge painted backgrounds that
I’ll have to find someplace to store at the office. Fred will scream when he
sees them about the room they’ll take up, they’re huge.
I got to the office early. Vincent showed me the the video for this week’s
MTV show, and it looks interesting, different, kind of odd.
Cabbed to Clemente’s ($5). I thought they entertained all the time but
they said the last dinner party they had was the one we were at. Robert
Mapplethorpe was there. He looked more healthy than I’ve ever seen him,
he had color in his face. I think they’re trying out a new drug on him, I hope
he makes it. And we talked about the people from the seventies. I asked him
about his old girlfriend Patti Smith and he said he’d just shot her and I said
why didn’t he give the pictures to Interview and he said Vogue already had
them. And then that reminded me that I’d bought People magazine and
there was their article about Ivy Nicholson—she’s now a bag lady in San
Francisco and her twin sons are twenty-one years old. She looks like the
most beautiful bag lady you’ll ever see, though. It says she’s fifty-three.
She’s up against the wall with her legs straight out and a form-fitting top.
It’s like with Nico—everything just looks right when she does it, so it’s
these raggy clothes, but they look great. And it’s sort of the hippie look,
really, with three crinolines and just the right (laughs) raggy bow. Left at
11:00, Paige dropped me.
Wednesday, February 11, 1987
Fred called to tell me that he heard Bob Colacello was writing a book “on
the seventies” so that was, uh, swell to hear.
Oh, and Nancy Reagan was on TV reading one of her six billion drug
letters and crying—big tears just whaling down her cheeks, it was the best
acting ever—she’d never do it over Ron Jr. or Doria. And Ron Jr. still hasn’t
made it, and it’s because he just isn’t good-looking. If he were, he’d have a
big career by now. And Prince Andrew has gotten so ugly, he’s looking like
his mother. And let’s see what else …
Okay, went to see Dr. Reese, he’s in town. He looks a lot younger, like
he’s using Grecian Formula to get rid of his grey hair.
So I left there and Paige was having a lunch for condom advertisers, and
she said that Sam had called her and said that she couldn’t mix her (laughs)
dirty condom people in with my Italian guy who was a shoe manufacturer
from Italy who wants his portrait done. When I got to the office (cab $6) I
told the condom people that I wanted a demonstration (laughs) and then
they all took out their rubbers and they showed how the rim of it has
adhesive so it wouldn’t slide off. So I said (laughs), “Oh great, so you can
reuse it three or four times and not take it off!”
Then I made plans to go to dinner with Wilfredo and David LaChapelle,
the Interview photographer, and Sophie Xuerbe’s son who I think wants to
talk because he read we’re doing a movie of Tama’s book and he wants to
be in a movie. So we went to Provence, this is the restaurant that the guy
who was at Le Cirque started. We talked about the magazine (cab $6, dinner
$180).
Oh, and Dolly Fox called and she’s at the Chateau Marmont because she
and Charlie Sheen broke up.
Thursday, February 12, 1987
Paige was having an Interview dinner at Texarkana and I invited Victor
Love from Native Son for her. Kenny and Teresa Scharf were coming to the
dinner and Wilfredo. Keith is going to South America for the winter.
Ulrik came by to talk about the curtain I’m doing for the New York City
Ballet. I’ve got to get working on that, it’s due soon.
So went down to Texarkana (cab $5). Heather Watts was there, and
Stephen Sprouse and T.T. Wachtmeister, and Richard Johnson from Page
Six and Freddie Sutherland. And Jeff Slonim from Interview he’s Tama’s
cousin, and he has perfect teeth, a beautiful toothpaste smile. Oh, and
Howard Read from the Miller Gallery has been staying at the Gramercy
Park Hotel because his apartment burned down and his cat was killed in the
fire.
We were there till 1:00.
Friday, February 13, 1987
Ken picked me up. Went to Bloomingdale’s (phone $.50, newspaper $.70).
Lunch at the office was for Pat Patterson and the new president of Henry
Bendel’s and he brought me soap.
And Howard Read brought a lady by for a portrait, so that was fun,
worked on that. Worked till 8:00. Then the birthday party at Raoul’s for
Barry Tubbs didn’t start until 11:00 and what’re you supposed to do until
then. Called John Reinhold and Wilfredo. John picked me up and we went
to Castellano’s for dinner ($170). Then we went to Raoul’s, and Barry had
odd people there—like Larry “Bud” Melman and Judd Nelson and Lynn
Redgrave and Tom Cruise’s sister. She’s sort of cute. She looks like
(laughs) somebody’s sister. We were there till 1:00.
Saturday, February 14, 1987
A really short day. Nothing much happened. I went shopping, did errands,
came home, talked on the phone….Yeah, that’s all. Really. It was a short
day.
Sunday, February 15, 1987
The house was freezing. Stayed upstairs in bed watching TV. Stuart kept
calling, talked to him about ten times. Sam called and Wilfredo. And John
Reinhold. It was a big day on the phone but nothing else. I didn’t go out,
didn’t even go to church. It was just so cold. I watched Agnes of God three
times and it was so boring. And I saw The Story of Will Rogers with Will
Rogers, Jr. and Jane Wyman, and the son played his father. The son was on
the Today Show at CBS when I did the weather drawings in the fifties.
Stayed up to watch Andy Warhols Fifteen Minutes on MTV.
Monday, February 16, 1987
I’m reading Dancing on My Grave, the Gelsey Kirkland book, and I’m
disappointed, I thought it would be more trashy.
I’m watching Yankee Doodle Dandy right now and you see these big
statues of like Abraham Lincoln and you wonder if these movie sets are the
things that (laughs) wind up in the antique stores—the things that you don’t
know what they are—and then some day somebody finally figures it out
and they turn out to be worth fifty cents, not $2 million, and I mean, that’s
the art game. When I think of all those French “antiques” I’ve looked at that
were probably just props from store windows….
Ken arrived. I can tell what the temperature is outside by the
temperature in my kitchen—it’s so cold down there that they’re always the
same. Went to the West Side to see Dr. Linda Li (cab $4).
Then went down to the office and Julian Schnabel was there, he was
being really charming to Fred, I can’t figure out what he wants out of him.
He was nice to Fred once before and I forget what it was he wanted then.
He’s being reeeally charming. His book is coming out. Who does he think
he is? He’s just pushy and energetic. Well, but that’s all life is, being pushy
and energetic. And he was just down in Miami and he met Gael there and he
hated her. He came right out and said we should fire Gael and hire his wife
to be editor, that Gael was stupid and pretentious and fat.
He took Fred down to his studio. I really wonder what he wants out of
Fred.
And Brigid has disappeared for a week. On Friday she ate a whole cake
in one second and then she announced she wasn’t coming in the next week
because she was going to London to a fat farm. Would she really go all the
way to London for that? Well, I mean, she sure ought to be able to afford it
—she charges $2,000 for each sweater she knits at the reception desk while
she’s supposed to be answering the phones, and she’s selling so many of
them—Paige even bought one.
Tuesday, February 17, 1987
In the morning I was preparing myself for my appearance in the fashion
show Benjamin coordinated at the Tunnel. They’d sent the clothes over and
I look like Liberace in them. Should I just go all the way and be the new
Liberace? Snakeskin and rabbit fur. Julian Schnabel (laughs) would be so
impressed with these clothes he would start wearing them.
Oh, and Brigid is at the English fat farm and she’s going to be fired
when she gets back. I’ll give her a pink slip. I’ll give her dogs pink slips—
Fame and Fortune will be fired!
Vincent was going to tape the fashion show and he called to say a car
would pick me up at the office at 2:00. Ken came and we went downtown
(cab $6). Worked hard at the office.
Then went over to the Tunnel and they gave us the best dressing room,
but still it was absolutely freezing. I had all my makeup with me. Miles
Davis was there and he has such delicate fingers. They’re the same length
as mine but half the width. I’d gone with Jean Michel last year to see his
show at the Beacon, and I’d met him in the sixties at that store on
Christopher Street, Hernando’s, where we used to go get leather pants. I
reminded him that I’d met him there and he said he remembered. Miles is a
clotheshorse. And we made a deal that we’d trade ten minutes of him
playing music for me, for me doing his portrait. He gave me his address and
a drawing— he draws while he gets his hair done. His hairdresser does the
hair weaving, the extensions.
They did a $5,000 custom outfit for Miles with gold musical notes on it
and everything, and they didn’t do a thing for me, they were so mean. They
could’ve made me a gold palette or something. So I looked like the poor
stepchild, and in the end they even (laughs) told me I walked too slow.
And the clothes in the show really stank. Alligator, fur, and lace. And I
really worked my ass off. The Japanese crew was more interested in me
than in Miles. They were doing the show again at 10:00 but I didn’t have to
do the second one, I was only in the one that was for the press. And then
afterwards Vincent had a taxi come.
When I got home I called Fred and explained that I was just too
exhausted to go to the Fendi dinner, so when he called them to say I
wouldn’t be coming with him and that he’d bring a girl instead, they said
don’t bother, that they didn’t want him without me.
Got into bed and Wilfredo called and then Sam called and then I fell
asleep. But I woke up at 6:30 and I couldn’t get back to sleep, so I took
some Valium and a Seconal and two aspirin, and I was sleeping so heavily
that I didn’t wake up when PH called at nine o’clock. And when I didn’t
answer she got scared because that had never happened before, so she
called on the other line and Aurora answered in the kitchen, and PH made
her come up to my bedroom to shake me but I wish she’d just let me sleep.
[Andy did not tell the Diary, but on Saturday, February 14, he went to
Dr. Karen Burke’s for a collagen treatment; during the visit he complained
of pains in his gallbladder. On Sunday, Andy stayed in bed all day and the
pain subsided. On Monday he kept his appointment with Dr. Linda M. Li at
the Li Chiropractic Healing Arts Center. That night Dr. Burke called Andy
to see how he was and when he admitted that he was again feeling the
sharp pains, she urged him to see his regular doctor, Dr. Denton Cox.
Although on Tuesday he made his “celebrity appearance” in the Japanese
fashion show, he was in pain for the rest of the night. Finally at 6:30 A.M.
he took a painkiller and sleeping pill which made him sleep through the
Wednesday 9 A.M. Diary phone call. On Thursday, when Andy answered the
phone at 9 A.M. he was breathing heavily. He told me hehad seen Dr. Cox
and that he was going to “the place” to have “it” done (Andy’s fear of
hospitals and operations was so great that he couldn’t bring himself to say
those specific words) because “they told me I’ll die if I don’t.” He said he
would resume doing the Diary after “it” was over, that he would call me
from “the place.”
On Friday, February 20, Andy was admitted to New York Hospital as an
“ambulatory emergency patient.” On Saturday his gallbladder was
removed, and he appeared to be recovering well from the surgery—he
watched television, and made phone calls to friends. But early Sunday
morning, for reasons that are in litigation, he died.
A few weeks later, the woman who had admitted him to the hospital told
me that Andy was the only person in her experience who had ever
remembered his Blue Cross and health insurance identification-card
numbers by heart.]
